
## Class : nacre

 * *IRI* = http://purl.obolibrary.org/obo/UBERON_0008269
 * *Label* = nacre
 * *Definition* = An organic-inorganic composite material produced by some mollusks as an inner shell layer; it is also what makes up pearls. It is very strong, resilient, and iridescent. Nacre is found in some ancient lineages of bivalve gastropod and cephalopod. The inner layer in the great majority of mollusk shells is porcellaneous, not nacreous, frequently resulting in a non-iridescent shine or less commonly in non-nacreous iridescence such as flame structure (e.g. conch pearl). Pearls and the inside layer of pearl oyster and freshwater pearl mussel shells are made of nacre. Many other families of mollusk also have a nacreous inner shell layer, including marine gastropods such as the Haliotidae, the Trochidae and the Turbinidae. Nacre is composed of hexagonal platelets of aragonite (a form of calcium carbonate) 10-20 µm wide and 0.5 µm thick arranged in a continuous parallel lamina. These layers are separated by sheets of organic matrix composed of elastic biopolymers (such as chitin, lustrin and silk-like proteins)[WP]. [ [database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md) = http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Nacre ]

## Synonyms

 * mother of pearl [ [database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md) = http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Nacre ]

## Cross-references

 * http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Nacre

## Subsets


## Superclasses

 * [organism substance](../../UBERON/63/UBERON_0000463.md)
 * [skeletal tissue](../../UBERON/55/UBERON_0004755.md)
 * [only in taxon](../../RO/60/RO_0002160.md) some [Mollusca](../../NCBITaxon/47/NCBITaxon_6447.md)

## Equivalencies


## Other Logical Axioms


## Other Annotations

 * *[definition](../../IAO/15/IAO_0000115.md)* = An organic-inorganic composite material produced by some mollusks as an inner shell layer; it is also what makes up pearls. It is very strong, resilient, and iridescent. Nacre is found in some ancient lineages of bivalve gastropod and cephalopod. The inner layer in the great majority of mollusk shells is porcellaneous, not nacreous, frequently resulting in a non-iridescent shine or less commonly in non-nacreous iridescence such as flame structure (e.g. conch pearl). Pearls and the inside layer of pearl oyster and freshwater pearl mussel shells are made of nacre. Many other families of mollusk also have a nacreous inner shell layer, including marine gastropods such as the Haliotidae, the Trochidae and the Turbinidae. Nacre is composed of hexagonal platelets of aragonite (a form of calcium carbonate) 10-20 µm wide and 0.5 µm thick arranged in a continuous parallel lamina. These layers are separated by sheets of organic matrix composed of elastic biopolymers (such as chitin, lustrin and silk-like proteins)[WP].
 * *[database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md)* = http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Nacre
 * *[has_exact_synonym](../../ym/oboInOwl#hasExactSynonym.md)* = mother of pearl
 * *[rdf-schema#label](../../el/rdf-schema#label.md)* = nacre

## Usage

 * -
 * [nacre](../../UBERON/69/UBERON_0008269.md) SubClassOf [only in taxon](../../RO/60/RO_0002160.md) some [Mollusca](../../NCBITaxon/47/NCBITaxon_6447.md)
 * [nacre](../../UBERON/69/UBERON_0008269.md) SubClassOf [organism substance](../../UBERON/63/UBERON_0000463.md)
 * [nacre](../../UBERON/69/UBERON_0008269.md) SubClassOf [skeletal tissue](../../UBERON/55/UBERON_0004755.md)

## External Comments

