
## Class : iris

 * *IRI* = http://purl.obolibrary.org/obo/UBERON_0001769
 * *Label* = iris
 * *Definition* = a membrane in the eye, responsible for controlling the amount of light reaching the retina. The iris consists of pigmented fibrovascular tissue known as a stroma. It is the most forward portion of the eye and the only one seen on superficial inspection. The stroma connects a sphincter muscle (sphincter pupillae), which contracts the pupil, and a set of dilator muscles (dilator pupillae) which open it. The back surface is covered by a heavily pigmented epithelial layer two cells thick (the iris pigment epithelium), but the front surface has no epithelium. The high pigment content blocks light from passing through the iris and restricts it to the pupil. The outer edge of the iris, known as the root, is attached to the sclera and the anterior ciliary body. The iris and ciliary body together are known as the anterior uvea. Just in front of the root of the iris is the region through which the aqueous humour constantly drains out of the eye, with the result that diseases of the iris often have important effects on intraocular pressure, and indirectly on vision. Depending on the amount of light, the iris makes the pupil larger or smaller. [ [database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md) = Wikipedia:Iris_(anatomy) ]
 * *Comment* = Taxon notes: The avian iris and ciliary body undergoes a transition from smooth-to-striated muscle during embryonic development - dx.doi.org/10.1006/dbio.1998.9019

## Synonyms

 * anterior uvea
 * irises [ [database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md) = VHOG:0000101, [has_synonym_type](../../pe/oboInOwl#hasSynonymType.md) = http://purl.obolibrary.org/obo/uberon/core#PLURAL ]

## Cross-references

 * AAO:0010347
 * BTO:0000653
 * CALOHA:TS-0491
 * EFO:0004245
 * EMAPA:19154
 * EV:0100345
 * FMA:58235
 * GAID:917
 * MA:0000273
 * MESH:A09.371.894.513
 * OpenCyc:Mx4rvVjbppwpEbGdrcN5Y29ycA
 * SCTID:181164000
 * TAO:0001238
 * UMLS:C0022077 [ [oboInOwl#source](../../ce/oboInOwl#source.md) = ncithesaurus:Iris ]
 * VHOG:0000101
 * Wikipedia:Iris_(anatomy)
 * XAO:0000185
 * ZFA:0001238
 * ncithesaurus:Iris

## Subsets

 * http://purl.obolibrary.org/obo/uberon/core#efo_slim
 * http://purl.obolibrary.org/obo/uberon/core#uberon_slim
 * http://purl.obolibrary.org/obo/uberon/core#vertebrate_core

## Superclasses

 * [multi-tissue structure](../../UBERON/81/UBERON_0000481.md)
 * [ectoderm-derived structure](../../UBERON/21/UBERON_0004121.md)
 * [part_of](../../BFO/50/BFO_0000050.md) some [anterior uvea](../../UBERON/92/UBERON_0011892.md)
 * [develops from](../../RO/02/RO_0002202.md) some [optic vesicle](../../UBERON/28/UBERON_0004128.md)

## Equivalencies


## Other Logical Axioms


## Other Annotations

 * *[external_definition](../../UBPROP/01/UBPROP_0000001.md)* = The opaque muscular contractile diaphragm suspended in the aqueous humour in front of the lens of the eye. The organ is perforated by the pupil and continues peripherally with the ciliary body. [Dorian_AF, Elsevier's_encyclopaedic_dictionary_of_medicine, Part_B:_Anatomy_(1988)_Amsterdam_etc.:_Elsevier][VHOG]
 * *[homology_notes](../../UBPROP/03/UBPROP_0000003.md)* = The eye of the adult lamprey is remarkably similar to our own, and it possesses numerous features (including the expression of opsin genes) that are very similar to those of the eyes of jawed vertebrates. The lamprey's camera-like eye has a lens, an iris and extra-ocular muscles (five of them, unlike the eyes of jawed vertebrates, which have six), although it lacks intra-ocular muscles. Its retina also has a structure very similar to that of the retinas of other vertebrates, with three nuclear layers comprised of the cell bodies of photoreceptors and bipolar, horizontal, amacrine and ganglion cells. The southern hemisphere lamprey, Geotria australis, possesses five morphological classes of retinal photoreceptor and five classes of opsin, each of which is closely related to the opsins of jawed vertebrates. Given these similarities, we reach the inescapable conclusion that the last common ancestor of jawless and jawed vertebrates already possessed an eye that was comparable to that of extant lampreys and gnathostomes. Accordingly, a vertebrate camera-like eye must have been present by the time that lampreys and gnathostomes diverged, around 500 Mya.[well established][VHOG]
 * *[has_relational_adjective](../../UBPROP/07/UBPROP_0000007.md)* = iridial
 * *[homologous_in](../../core#homologous/in/core#homologous_in.md)* = http://purl.obolibrary.org/obo/NCBITaxon_7742

## Usage


## External Comments

