
## Class : palatine aponeurosis

 * *IRI* = http://purl.obolibrary.org/obo/UBERON_0014780
 * *Label* = palatine aponeurosis
 * *Definition* = Attached to the posterior border of the hard palate is a thin, firm fibrous lamella called the palatine aponeurosis, which supports the muscles and gives strength to the soft palate. It is thicker above than below, where it becomes very thin and difficult to define. Laterally it is continuous with the pharyngeal aponeurosis. It serves as the insertion for the Tensor veli palatini and Levator veli palatini, and the origin for the Musculus uvulae, Palatopharyngeus, and Palatoglossus. It provides support for the soft palate. [ [database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md) = http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Palatine_aponeurosis ]

## Synonyms

 * aponeurosis of tensor veli palatini [ [database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md) = FMA:49429 ]
 * aponeurosis palatina [ [database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md) = http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Palatine_aponeurosis ]

## Cross-references

 * FMA:49429
 * http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Palatine_aponeurosis

## Subsets


## Superclasses

 * [endoderm-derived structure](../../UBERON/19/UBERON_0004119.md)
 * [aponeurosis](../../UBERON/14/UBERON_0006614.md)
 * [neural crest-derived structure](../../UBERON/13/UBERON_0010313.md)
 * [part_of](../../BFO/50/BFO_0000050.md) some [soft palate](../../UBERON/33/UBERON_0001733.md)

## Equivalencies

 * [aponeurosis](../../UBERON/14/UBERON_0006614.md) and [part_of](../../BFO/50/BFO_0000050.md) some [soft palate](../../UBERON/33/UBERON_0001733.md)

## Other Logical Axioms


## Other Annotations

 * *[definition](../../IAO/15/IAO_0000115.md)* = Attached to the posterior border of the hard palate is a thin, firm fibrous lamella called the palatine aponeurosis, which supports the muscles and gives strength to the soft palate. It is thicker above than below, where it becomes very thin and difficult to define. Laterally it is continuous with the pharyngeal aponeurosis. It serves as the insertion for the Tensor veli palatini and Levator veli palatini, and the origin for the Musculus uvulae, Palatopharyngeus, and Palatoglossus. It provides support for the soft palate.
 * *[database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md)* = FMA:49429
 * *[database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md)* = http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Palatine_aponeurosis
 * *[has_exact_synonym](../../ym/oboInOwl#hasExactSynonym.md)* = aponeurosis of tensor veli palatini
 * *[has_exact_synonym](../../ym/oboInOwl#hasExactSynonym.md)* = aponeurosis palatina
 * *[rdf-schema#label](../../el/rdf-schema#label.md)* = palatine aponeurosis

## Usage

 * -
 * [palatine aponeurosis](../../UBERON/80/UBERON_0014780.md) == [aponeurosis](../../UBERON/14/UBERON_0006614.md) and [part_of](../../BFO/50/BFO_0000050.md) some [soft palate](../../UBERON/33/UBERON_0001733.md)
 * [palatine aponeurosis](../../UBERON/80/UBERON_0014780.md) SubClassOf [aponeurosis](../../UBERON/14/UBERON_0006614.md)
 * [palatine aponeurosis](../../UBERON/80/UBERON_0014780.md) SubClassOf [endoderm-derived structure](../../UBERON/19/UBERON_0004119.md)
 * [palatine aponeurosis](../../UBERON/80/UBERON_0014780.md) SubClassOf [neural crest-derived structure](../../UBERON/13/UBERON_0010313.md)
 * [palatine aponeurosis](../../UBERON/80/UBERON_0014780.md) SubClassOf [part_of](../../BFO/50/BFO_0000050.md) some [soft palate](../../UBERON/33/UBERON_0001733.md)
 * [uvular muscle](../../UBERON/35/UBERON_0010235.md) SubClassOf [has_muscle_insertion](../../RO/73/RO_0002373.md) some [palatine aponeurosis](../../UBERON/80/UBERON_0014780.md)

## External Comments

