
## Class : primary motor cortex

 * *IRI* = http://purl.obolibrary.org/obo/UBERON_0001384
 * *Label* = primary motor cortex
 * *Definition* = The part of the cerebral cortex that receives projections from the motor thalamus and which projects to motor neurons in the brainstem and spinal cord. The motor cortex corresponds to Brodmann's area 4 (MM). The primary motor cortex, or M1, is located on the precentral gyrus and on the anterior paracentral lobule on the medial surface of the brain. Of the three motor cortex areas, stimulation of the primary motor cortex requires the least amount of electrical current to elicit a movement. http://neuroscience.uth.tmc.edu/s3/chapter03.html [ [database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md) = NIF_GrossAnatomy:nlx_143555 ]
 * *Comment* = TODO: in MA this is asserted to be part_of BOTH frontal and parietal cortex. in ABA these are disjoint. FMA makes no commitment beyond cerebral cortex. Wikipedia says frontal lobe. Check if species difference or difference in definition. Removed relationship: part_of UBERON:0001872 [ [oboInOwl#source](../../ce/oboInOwl#source.md) = MA-modified ]

## Synonyms

 * motor cortex [ [database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md) = FMA:224854 ]
 * Rolando's area [ [database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md) = BTO:0004348 ]
 * excitable area [ [database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md) = BTO:0004348 ]
 * gyrus precentralis [ [database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md) = Wikipedia:Primary_motor_cortex, [has_synonym_type](../../pe/oboInOwl#hasSynonymType.md) = http://purl.obolibrary.org/obo/uberon/core#LATIN ]
 * medial orbital cortex [ [database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md) = BAMS:MO ]
 * motor area [ [database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md) = BTO:0004348 ]
 * prefrontal gyrus [ [database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md) = MP:0000798, [database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md) = Wikipedia:Primary_motor_cortex ]
 * primary motor area [ [database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md) = BAMS:MOp ]
 * somatic motor areas [ [database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md) = BAMS:MO ]
 * somatomotor areas [ [database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md) = BAMS:MO ]

## Cross-references

 * BAMS:M1
 * BAMS:MO
 * BAMS:MOp
 * BM:Tel-Cx-M1
 * BTO:0004348
 * EFO:0002472
 * FMA:224854
 * MA:0000907
 * MESH:A08.186.211.730.885.213.270.548
 * NIF_GrossAnatomy:nlx_143555
 * NeuroNames:1910
 * SCTID:11931008
 * UMLS:C0026607 [ [oboInOwl#source](../../ce/oboInOwl#source.md) = ncithesaurus:Primary_Motor_Cortex ]
 * Wikipedia:Primary_motor_cortex
 * http://upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/e/eb/Ba4.png
 * http://upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/e/eb/Ba4.png/200px-Ba4.png
 * ncithesaurus:Primary_Motor_Cortex

## Subsets

 * http://purl.obolibrary.org/obo/uberon/core#efo_slim
 * http://purl.obolibrary.org/obo/uberon/core#uberon_slim

## Superclasses

 * [regional part of cerebral cortex](../../UBERON/19/UBERON_0002619.md)
 * [part_of](../../BFO/50/BFO_0000050.md) some [frontal cortex](../../UBERON/70/UBERON_0001870.md)
 * [part_of](../../BFO/50/BFO_0000050.md) some [neocortex](../../UBERON/50/UBERON_0001950.md)

## Equivalencies


## Other Logical Axioms


## Other Annotations

 * *[external_definition](../../UBPROP/01/UBPROP_0000001.md)* = The part of the cerebral cortex that receives projections from the motor thalamus and which projects to motor neurons in the brainstem and spinal cord. The motor cortex corresponds to Brodmann's area 4 (MM). The primary motor cortex, or M1, is located on the precentral gyrus and on the anterior paracentral lobule on the medial surface of the brain. Of the three motor cortex areas, stimulation of the primary motor cortex requires the least amount of electrical current to elicit a movement. http://neuroscience.uth.tmc.edu/s3/chapter03.html
 * *[external_definition](../../UBPROP/01/UBPROP_0000001.md)* = the area of the frontal lobe that is involved with integration of voluntary movements and with speech.[MP]

## Usage


## External Comments

