
## Class : pleurostyle

 * *IRI* = http://purl.obolibrary.org/obo/UBERON_2002084
 * *Label* = pleurostyle
 * *Definition* = Postero-dorsal process of preural vertebra 1 or postero-dorsal process of the compound terminal centrum. The pleurostyle is a paired membrane bone. [ [database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md) = TAO:GA_TG ]
 * *Comment* = The pleurostyle is currently interpreted as a modified pair of uroneurals that fuse to preural vertebra 1 or compound centrum early in ontogeny. However, it is unclear which pair of the series of uroneurals forms the pleurostyle in different teleost subgroups.

## Synonyms

 * uroneural 1 [ [database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md) = TAO:0002084 ]
 * uroneural [ [database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md) = TAO:0002084 ]

## Cross-references


## Subsets


## Superclasses

 * [uroneural](../../UBERON/02/UBERON_2000602.md)

## Equivalencies


## Other Logical Axioms


## Other Annotations

 * *[definition](../../IAO/15/IAO_0000115.md)* = Postero-dorsal process of preural vertebra 1 or postero-dorsal process of the compound terminal centrum. The pleurostyle is a paired membrane bone.
 * *[core#provenance_notes](../../core#provenance/es/core#provenance_notes.md)* = This class was sourced from an external ontology (teleost_anatomy). Its definitions, naming conventions and relationships may need to be checked for compatibility with uberon
 * *[oboInOwl#created_by](../../oboInOwl#created/by/oboInOwl#created_by.md)* = teleost_anatomy_curators
 * *[has_related_synonym](../../ym/oboInOwl#hasRelatedSynonym.md)* = uroneural
 * *[has_related_synonym](../../ym/oboInOwl#hasRelatedSynonym.md)* = uroneural 1
 * *[rdf-schema#comment](../../nt/rdf-schema#comment.md)* = The pleurostyle is currently interpreted as a modified pair of uroneurals that fuse to preural vertebra 1 or compound centrum early in ontogeny. However, it is unclear which pair of the series of uroneurals forms the pleurostyle in different teleost subgroups.
 * *[rdf-schema#label](../../el/rdf-schema#label.md)* = pleurostyle

## Usage

 * -
 * [pleurostyle](../../UBERON/84/UBERON_2002084.md) SubClassOf [uroneural](../../UBERON/02/UBERON_2000602.md)
 * [pseudourostyle](../../UBERON/66/UBERON_2002166.md) SubClassOf [part_of](../../BFO/50/BFO_0000050.md) some [pleurostyle](../../UBERON/84/UBERON_2002084.md)

## External Comments

