
## Class : renal artery

 * *IRI* = http://purl.obolibrary.org/obo/UBERON_0001184
 * *Label* = renal artery
 * *Definition* = One of two laterally paired arteries that supplies the kidneys. These are large arteries that branch from the dorsal aorta in primitive vertebrates. [ [database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md) = ISBN10:0073040584, [database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md) = Wikipedia:Renal_artery ]
 * *Comment* = Editor notes: renal arteries vary widely even in humans. Sub-structures should be checked for taxon variability.

## Synonyms

 * renal arterial tree
 * arteria renalis [ [database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md) = Wikipedia:Renal_artery, [has_synonym_type](../../pe/oboInOwl#hasSynonymType.md) = http://purl.obolibrary.org/obo/uberon/core#LATIN ]
 * renal arteries [ [has_synonym_type](../../pe/oboInOwl#hasSynonymType.md) = http://purl.obolibrary.org/obo/uberon/core#PLURAL ]

## Cross-references

 * AAO:0010223
 * BTO:0001165
 * EFO:0002552
 * EHDAA2:0004100
 * EHDAA:5321
 * EHDAA:8594
 * EMAPA:17862
 * EMAPA:28373
 * FMA:14751
 * GAID:507
 * MA:0002035
 * MESH:A07.231.114.745
 * OpenCyc:Mx4rveOFHpwpEbGdrcN5Y29ycA
 * RETIRED_EHDAA2:0001600
 * SCTID:181339005
 * TAO:0000420
 * UMLS:C0035065 [ [oboInOwl#source](../../ce/oboInOwl#source.md) = ncithesaurus:Renal_Artery ]
 * Wikipedia:Renal_artery
 * ZFA:0000420
 * galen:RenalArtery
 * http://upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/d/da/Gray1120.png
 * http://upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/d/da/Gray1120.png/200px-Gray1120.png
 * ncithesaurus:Renal_Artery

## Subsets

 * http://purl.obolibrary.org/obo/uberon/core#efo_slim
 * http://purl.obolibrary.org/obo/uberon/core#uberon_slim
 * http://purl.obolibrary.org/obo/uberon/core#vertebrate_core

## Superclasses

 * [abdominal aorta artery](../../UBERON/54/UBERON_0012254.md)
 * [supplies](../../FMA/03/FMA_86003.md) some [kidney](../../UBERON/13/UBERON_0002113.md)
 * [branching_part_of](../../RO/80/RO_0002380.md) some [abdominal aorta](../../UBERON/16/UBERON_0001516.md)

## Equivalencies

 * [artery](../../UBERON/37/UBERON_0001637.md) and [supplies](../../FMA/03/FMA_86003.md) some [kidney](../../UBERON/13/UBERON_0002113.md)

## Other Logical Axioms


## Other Annotations

 * *[external_definition](../../UBPROP/01/UBPROP_0000001.md)* = Artery which supplies blood via branches to the gonads, oviducts, and kidneys.[AAO]
 * *[external_definition](../../UBPROP/01/UBPROP_0000001.md)* = The renal arteries normally arise off the side of the abdominal aorta, immediately below the superior mesenteric artery, and supply the kidneys with blood. Each is directed across the crus of the diaphragm, so as to form nearly a right angle with the aorta. The renal arteries carry a large portion of total blood flow to the kidneys. Up to a third of total cardiac output can pass through the renal arteries to be filtered by the kidneys. The arterial supply of the kidneys is variable and there may be one or more renal arteries supplying each kidney. It is located above the renal vein. It has a radius of approximately 0.25cm, 0.26 cm at the root. The measured mean diameter can differ depending on the imaging method used. For example, the diameter was found to be 5.04 ± 0.74 mm using ultrasound, but 5.68 ± 1.19 mm using angiography. [WP,unvetted].[Wikipedia]

## Usage


## External Comments

