
## Class : septum transversum

 * *IRI* = http://purl.obolibrary.org/obo/UBERON_0004161
 * *Label* = septum transversum
 * *Definition* = A thick plate of mesodermal tissue that occupies the space between the thoracic cavity and yolk stalk in the early embryo, forming a transverse partition partially separating the coelomic cavity into thoracic and abdominal portions. It gives rise to the central tendon of the diaphragm[VHOG]. [ [database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md) = VHOG:0000019, [database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md) = http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Septum_transversum ]

## Synonyms

 * transverse septum [ [database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md) = https://orcid.org/0000-0002-6601-2165 ]

## Cross-references

 * EHDAA2:0001829
 * EHDAA:736
 * EMAPA:16318
 * UMLS:C0231004 [ [oboInOwl#source](../../ce/oboInOwl#source.md) = ncithesaurus:Septum_Transversum ]
 * VHOG:0000019
 * http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Septum_transversum
 * http://linkedlifedata.com/resource/umls/id/C0231004
 * http://ncicb.nci.nih.gov/xml/owl/EVS/Septum_Transversum
 * http://www.snomedbrowser.com/Codes/Details/308819008

## Subsets

 * http://purl.obolibrary.org/obo/uberon/core#pheno_slim

## Superclasses

 * [mesenchyme](../../UBERON/04/UBERON_0003104.md)
 * [part_of](../../BFO/50/BFO_0000050.md) some [trunk](../../UBERON/00/UBERON_0002100.md)
 * [located_in](../../RO/25/RO_0001025.md) some [coelemic cavity lumen](../../UBERON/23/UBERON_0002323.md)

## Equivalencies


## Other Logical Axioms


## Other Annotations

 * *[definition](../../IAO/15/IAO_0000115.md)* = A thick plate of mesodermal tissue that occupies the space between the thoracic cavity and yolk stalk in the early embryo, forming a transverse partition partially separating the coelomic cavity into thoracic and abdominal portions. It gives rise to the central tendon of the diaphragm[VHOG].
 * *[external_definition](../../UBPROP/01/UBPROP_0000001.md)* = A thick plate of mesodermal tissue that occupies the space between the thoracic cavity and yolk stalk in the early embryo, forming a transverse partition partially separating the coelomic cavity into thoracic and abdominal portions. It gives rise to the central tendon of the diaphragm. [TFD][VHOG]
 * *[homology_notes](../../UBPROP/03/UBPROP_0000003.md)* = In hagfishes a transverse septum extends upward from the ventral body wall posterior to the heart, partly separating an anterior pericardial cavity from a larger peritoneal cavity. (...) These basic relationships have not been modified by urodeles. The small pericardial cavity remains far forward where it is separated by a transverse septum from the principal coelom, which may now be called a pleuroperitoneal cavity because slender lungs are present. (...) The heart (of other tetrapods) is separated from the lungs (and liver if present) by more or less horizontal partitions that have their origin in the embryo as folds on the serous membrane of the right and left lateral body walls. These grow out to join in the midline of the body. They are called lateral mesocardia (birds) or pleuropericardial membranes. Posteriorly they join the transverse septum to form the adult pericardial membrane, or pericardium. (...) In their partitioning of their coelom, embryonic mammals resemble first early fishes (incomplete partition, posterior to heart, consisting of the transverse septum) and then reptiles (pericardium derived from transverse septum and pleuropericardial membranes) Mammals then separate paired pleural cavities from the peritoneal cavity by a diaphragm. The ventral portion of this organ comes from the transverse septum. The dorsal portion is derived from the dorsal mesentery and from still another pair of outgrowths from the lateral body wall, the pleuroperitoneal membranes.[well established][VHOG]
 * *[development_notes](../../UBPROP/11/UBPROP_0000011.md)* = The cranial part of the septum transversum gives rise to the central tendon of the diaphragm and is the origin of the myoblasts that invade the pleuroperitoneal folds resulting in the formation of the muscular diaphragm. The caudal part of the septum transversum is invaded by the hepatic diverticulum which divides within it to form the liver and thus gives rise to the ventral mesentery of the foregut.
 * *[external_ontology_notes](../../UBPROP/12/UBPROP_0000012.md)* = in EHDAA2 this is divided into mesenchymal portion and hepatic diverticulum
 * *[database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md)* = EHDAA2:0001829
 * *[database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md)* = EHDAA:736
 * *[database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md)* = EMAPA:16318
 * *[database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md)* = UMLS:C0231004
 * *[database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md)* = VHOG:0000019
 * *[database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md)* = http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Septum_transversum
 * *[database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md)* = http://linkedlifedata.com/resource/umls/id/C0231004
 * *[database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md)* = http://ncicb.nci.nih.gov/xml/owl/EVS/Septum_Transversum
 * *[database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md)* = http://www.snomedbrowser.com/Codes/Details/308819008
 * *[has_exact_synonym](../../ym/oboInOwl#hasExactSynonym.md)* = transverse septum
 * *[in_subset](../../et/oboInOwl#inSubset.md)* = http://purl.obolibrary.org/obo/uberon/core#pheno_slim
 * *[rdf-schema#label](../../el/rdf-schema#label.md)* = septum transversum

## Usage

 * -
 * [biliary bud](../../UBERON/12/UBERON_0004912.md) SubClassOf [develops_from](../../RO/02/RO_0002202.md) some [septum transversum](../../UBERON/61/UBERON_0004161.md)
 * [future central tendon](../../UBERON/39/UBERON_0006239.md) SubClassOf [develops_from](../../RO/02/RO_0002202.md) some [septum transversum](../../UBERON/61/UBERON_0004161.md)
 * [hepatic diverticulum](../../UBERON/35/UBERON_0008835.md) SubClassOf [part_of](../../BFO/50/BFO_0000050.md) some [septum transversum](../../UBERON/61/UBERON_0004161.md)
 * [liver](../../UBERON/07/UBERON_0002107.md) SubClassOf [develops_from](../../RO/02/RO_0002202.md) some [septum transversum](../../UBERON/61/UBERON_0004161.md)
 * [proepicardium](../../UBERON/60/UBERON_0004160.md) SubClassOf [part_of](../../BFO/50/BFO_0000050.md) some [septum transversum](../../UBERON/61/UBERON_0004161.md)
 * [septum transversum](../../UBERON/61/UBERON_0004161.md) SubClassOf [located_in](../../RO/25/RO_0001025.md) some [coelemic cavity lumen](../../UBERON/23/UBERON_0002323.md)
 * [septum transversum](../../UBERON/61/UBERON_0004161.md) SubClassOf [mesenchyme](../../UBERON/04/UBERON_0003104.md)
 * [septum transversum](../../UBERON/61/UBERON_0004161.md) SubClassOf [part_of](../../BFO/50/BFO_0000050.md) some [trunk](../../UBERON/00/UBERON_0002100.md)

## External Comments

