
## Class : Kupffer cell

 * *IRI* = http://purl.obolibrary.org/obo/CL_0000091
 * *Label* = Kupffer cell
 * *Definition* = A tissue-resident macrophage of the reticuloendothelial system found on the luminal surface of the hepatic sinusoids involved in erythrocyte clearance. Markers include F4/80+, CD11b-low, CD68-positive, sialoadhesin-positive, CD163/SRCR-positive. Irregular, with long processes including lamellipodia extending into the sinusoid lumen, have flattened nucleus with cytoplasm containing characteristic invaginations of the plasma membrane (vermiform bodies); lie within the sinusoid lumen attached to the endothelial surface; derived from the bone marrow, form a major part of the body's mononuclear phagocyte system. [ [database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md) = GOC:add, [database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md) = GOC:tfm, [database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md) = GO_REF:0000031, [database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md) = ISBN:0517223651, [database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md) = MESH:A11.329.372.588, [database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md) = PMID:15771589, [database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md) = PMID:17105582 ]
 * *Comment* = Markers: Mouse: F4/80+, CD11b-low, CD68+, sialoadhesin+, CD163/SRCR+; role or process: immune, antigen-presentation, clearance of senescent erythrocytes, iron metabolism. Kupffer cells are also reportedly C3aR-positive, CD14-low, CD54-positive, CD88-positive, and CD284-positive. They are also capable of producing IL-1, IL-6, TNF-alpha, nitric oxide, PGD2, PGE2, PGF2alpha, and TXA2.

## Synonyms

 * hepatic macrophage
 * littoral cell of hepatic sinusoid
 * liver macrophage
 * macrophagocytus stellatus
 * stellate cell of von Kupffer
 * von Kupffer cell

## Cross-references

 * BTO:0000685
 * FMA:14656

## Subsets


## Superclasses

 * [tissue-resident macrophage](../../CL/64/CL_0000864.md)
 * [capable_of](../../RO/15/RO_0002215.md) some [GO_0034102](../../GO/02/GO_0034102.md)

## Equivalencies


## Other Logical Axioms


## Other Annotations

 * *[definition](../../IAO/15/IAO_0000115.md)* = A tissue-resident macrophage of the reticuloendothelial system found on the luminal surface of the hepatic sinusoids involved in erythrocyte clearance. Markers include F4/80+, CD11b-low, CD68-positive, sialoadhesin-positive, CD163/SRCR-positive. Irregular, with long processes including lamellipodia extending into the sinusoid lumen, have flattened nucleus with cytoplasm containing characteristic invaginations of the plasma membrane (vermiform bodies); lie within the sinusoid lumen attached to the endothelial surface; derived from the bone marrow, form a major part of the body's mononuclear phagocyte system.
 * *[database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md)* = BTO:0000685
 * *[database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md)* = FMA:14656
 * *[has_exact_synonym](../../ym/oboInOwl#hasExactSynonym.md)* = hepatic macrophage
 * *[has_exact_synonym](../../ym/oboInOwl#hasExactSynonym.md)* = littoral cell of hepatic sinusoid
 * *[has_exact_synonym](../../ym/oboInOwl#hasExactSynonym.md)* = liver macrophage
 * *[has_exact_synonym](../../ym/oboInOwl#hasExactSynonym.md)* = macrophagocytus stellatus
 * *[has_exact_synonym](../../ym/oboInOwl#hasExactSynonym.md)* = stellate cell of von Kupffer
 * *[has_exact_synonym](../../ym/oboInOwl#hasExactSynonym.md)* = von Kupffer cell
 * *[rdf-schema#comment](../../nt/rdf-schema#comment.md)* = Markers: Mouse: F4/80+, CD11b-low, CD68+, sialoadhesin+, CD163/SRCR+; role or process: immune, antigen-presentation, clearance of senescent erythrocytes, iron metabolism. Kupffer cells are also reportedly C3aR-positive, CD14-low, CD54-positive, CD88-positive, and CD284-positive. They are also capable of producing IL-1, IL-6, TNF-alpha, nitric oxide, PGD2, PGE2, PGF2alpha, and TXA2.
 * *[rdf-schema#label](../../el/rdf-schema#label.md)* = Kupffer cell

## Usage

 * -
 * [Kupffer cell](../../CL/91/CL_0000091.md) SubClassOf [capable_of](../../RO/15/RO_0002215.md) some [GO_0034102](../../GO/02/GO_0034102.md)
 * [Kupffer cell](../../CL/91/CL_0000091.md) SubClassOf [tissue-resident macrophage](../../CL/64/CL_0000864.md)

## External Comments

