
## Class : caudal procurrent ray set

 * *IRI* = http://purl.obolibrary.org/obo/UBERON_2002165
 * *Label* = caudal procurrent ray set
 * *Definition* = An anatomical cluster of short rays, shorter than the principal ones, which form the anterior dorsal and ventral series of lepidotrichia of the caudal fin that may be associated with neural spines, epurals and uroneurals (dorsal series) and haemal spines of preural vertebrae (ventral series) (Arratia, 2008). The anteriormost procurrent rays are commonly unsegmented, but the posteriormost ones are usually segmented. The procurrent rays are numbered from caudal to rostral direction. The caudal procurrent ray series is an unpaired median series. [ [database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md) = TAO:Arratia_2008, [database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md) = TAO:GA_TG ]

## Synonyms

 * caudal precurrent rays [ [database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md) = TAO:0002165 ]
 * caudal spiny rays [ [database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md) = TAO:0002165 ]
 * rudimentary rays [ [database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md) = TAO:0002165 ]

## Cross-references


## Subsets


## Superclasses

 * [anatomical cluster](../../UBERON/77/UBERON_0000477.md)
 * [part_of](../../BFO/50/BFO_0000050.md) some [caudal fin skeleton](../../UBERON/67/UBERON_4000167.md)

## Equivalencies


## Other Logical Axioms


## Other Annotations

 * *[definition](../../IAO/15/IAO_0000115.md)* = An anatomical cluster of short rays, shorter than the principal ones, which form the anterior dorsal and ventral series of lepidotrichia of the caudal fin that may be associated with neural spines, epurals and uroneurals (dorsal series) and haemal spines of preural vertebrae (ventral series) (Arratia, 2008). The anteriormost procurrent rays are commonly unsegmented, but the posteriormost ones are usually segmented. The procurrent rays are numbered from caudal to rostral direction. The caudal procurrent ray series is an unpaired median series.
 * *[core#provenance_notes](../../core#provenance/es/core#provenance_notes.md)* = This class was sourced from an external ontology (teleost_anatomy). Its definitions, naming conventions and relationships may need to be checked for compatibility with uberon
 * *[oboInOwl#created_by](../../oboInOwl#created/by/oboInOwl#created_by.md)* = teleost_anatomy_curators
 * *[has_exact_synonym](../../ym/oboInOwl#hasExactSynonym.md)* = caudal precurrent rays
 * *[has_exact_synonym](../../ym/oboInOwl#hasExactSynonym.md)* = caudal spiny rays
 * *[has_exact_synonym](../../ym/oboInOwl#hasExactSynonym.md)* = rudimentary rays
 * *[rdf-schema#label](../../el/rdf-schema#label.md)* = caudal procurrent ray set

## Usage

 * -
 * [caudal procurrent ray set](../../UBERON/65/UBERON_2002165.md) SubClassOf [anatomical cluster](../../UBERON/77/UBERON_0000477.md)
 * [caudal procurrent ray set](../../UBERON/65/UBERON_2002165.md) SubClassOf [part_of](../../BFO/50/BFO_0000050.md) some [caudal fin skeleton](../../UBERON/67/UBERON_4000167.md)

## External Comments

