
## Class : ciliary marginal zone

 * *IRI* = http://purl.obolibrary.org/obo/UBERON_0003065
 * *Label* = ciliary marginal zone
 * *Definition* = Region at the periphery of the retina where retinal stem cells are located. After 60 hpf, the CMZ is the source of most retinal growth.[Wehman et al, 2005] [ [database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md) = ZFIN:curator ]

## Synonyms

 * peripheral growth zone [ [database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md) = ZFA:0001289 ]
 * CMZ
 * circumferential germinal zone

## Cross-references

 * AAO:0010342
 * EFO:0003668
 * TAO:0001289
 * VHOG:0000088
 * XAO:0000086
 * ZFA:0001289

## Subsets

 * http://purl.obolibrary.org/obo/uberon/core#efo_slim
 * http://purl.obolibrary.org/obo/uberon/core#uberon_slim

## Superclasses

 * [cell layer](../../UBERON/19/UBERON_0000119.md)
 * [ectoderm-derived structure](../../UBERON/21/UBERON_0004121.md)
 * [part_of](../../BFO/50/BFO_0000050.md) some [retina](../../UBERON/66/UBERON_0000966.md)
 * [has_part](../../BFO/51/BFO_0000051.md) some [retinal progenitor cell](../../CL/72/CL_0002672.md)

## Equivalencies


## Other Logical Axioms


## Other Annotations

 * *[definition](../../IAO/15/IAO_0000115.md)* = Region at the periphery of the retina where retinal stem cells are located. After 60 hpf, the CMZ is the source of most retinal growth.[Wehman et al, 2005]
 * *[external_definition](../../UBPROP/01/UBPROP_0000001.md)* = Region at the periphery of the retina where retinal stem cells are located. After 60 hpf, the CMZ is the source of most retinal growth. Wehman et al, 2005.[TAO]
 * *[homology_notes](../../UBPROP/03/UBPROP_0000003.md)* = The retina of all vertebrates develops via similar mechanisms. Toward the end of retinal histogenesis, proliferating progenitors and newly generated cells are confined to peripheral regions of the retina. In fish and amphibians, this region is maintained after embryonic development and becomes the CMZ (ciliary margin zone). A CMZ exists in birds but compared to that of fish and amphibians this region produces much less new retina as the globe of the eye expands postnatally. At least some of the molecular mechanisms that regulate the addition of new cells in this zone appear to have been conserved from fish to birds.[well established][VHOG]
 * *[database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md)* = AAO:0010342
 * *[database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md)* = EFO:0003668
 * *[database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md)* = TAO:0001289
 * *[database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md)* = VHOG:0000088
 * *[database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md)* = XAO:0000086
 * *[database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md)* = ZFA:0001289
 * *[has_exact_synonym](../../ym/oboInOwl#hasExactSynonym.md)* = peripheral growth zone
 * *[has_related_synonym](../../ym/oboInOwl#hasRelatedSynonym.md)* = CMZ
 * *[has_related_synonym](../../ym/oboInOwl#hasRelatedSynonym.md)* = circumferential germinal zone
 * *[in_subset](../../et/oboInOwl#inSubset.md)* = http://purl.obolibrary.org/obo/uberon/core#efo_slim
 * *[in_subset](../../et/oboInOwl#inSubset.md)* = http://purl.obolibrary.org/obo/uberon/core#uberon_slim
 * *[rdf-schema#label](../../el/rdf-schema#label.md)* = ciliary marginal zone

## Usage

 * -
 * [ciliary marginal zone](../../UBERON/65/UBERON_0003065.md) SubClassOf [cell layer](../../UBERON/19/UBERON_0000119.md)
 * [ciliary marginal zone](../../UBERON/65/UBERON_0003065.md) SubClassOf [ectoderm-derived structure](../../UBERON/21/UBERON_0004121.md)
 * [ciliary marginal zone](../../UBERON/65/UBERON_0003065.md) SubClassOf [has_part](../../BFO/51/BFO_0000051.md) some [retinal progenitor cell](../../CL/72/CL_0002672.md)
 * [ciliary marginal zone](../../UBERON/65/UBERON_0003065.md) SubClassOf [part_of](../../BFO/50/BFO_0000050.md) some [retina](../../UBERON/66/UBERON_0000966.md)

## External Comments

