
## Class : cardiocyte

 * *IRI* = http://purl.obolibrary.org/obo/CL_0002494
 * *Label* = cardiocyte
 * *Definition* = A cell located in the heart, including both muscle and non muscle cells. [ [database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md) = GOC:tfm ]
 * *Comment* = From Onard of the FMA: Cardiac muscle cell or cardiac myocyte is a striated muscle cell. Cardiocyte on the other hand is any cell in the heart which includes cells other than muscle cells (e.g. endothelial cell of endocardium). Unless there is a consensus among anatomists that cardiocytes refer only to muscle cells, we will treat them as a general class of cells in the heart.

## Synonyms

 * heart cell

## Cross-references

 * BTO:0001539
 * CALOHA:TS-0115
 * FMA:83808
 * FMA:84791

## Subsets


## Superclasses

 * [animal cell](../../CL/48/CL_0000548.md)
 * [somatic cell](../../CL/71/CL_0002371.md)
 * [part_of](../../BFO/50/BFO_0000050.md) some [primary circulatory organ](../../UBERON/00/UBERON_0007100.md)

## Equivalencies


## Other Logical Axioms


## Other Annotations

 * *[definition](../../IAO/15/IAO_0000115.md)* = A cell located in the heart, including both muscle and non muscle cells.
 * *[oboInOwl#created_by](../../oboInOwl#created/by/oboInOwl#created_by.md)* = tmeehan
 * *[oboInOwl#creation_date](../../oboInOwl#creation/te/oboInOwl#creation_date.md)* = 2010-12-07T09:37:22Z
 * *[database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md)* = BTO:0001539
 * *[database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md)* = CALOHA:TS-0115
 * *[database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md)* = FMA:83808
 * *[database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md)* = FMA:84791
 * *[has_exact_synonym](../../ym/oboInOwl#hasExactSynonym.md)* = heart cell
 * *[rdf-schema#comment](../../nt/rdf-schema#comment.md)* = From Onard of the FMA: Cardiac muscle cell or cardiac myocyte is a striated muscle cell. Cardiocyte on the other hand is any cell in the heart which includes cells other than muscle cells (e.g. endothelial cell of endocardium). Unless there is a consensus among anatomists that cardiocytes refer only to muscle cells, we will treat them as a general class of cells in the heart.
 * *[rdf-schema#label](../../el/rdf-schema#label.md)* = cardiocyte

## Usage

 * -
 * [cardiac endothelial cell](../../CL/08/CL_0010008.md) SubClassOf [cardiocyte](../../CL/94/CL_0002494.md)
 * [cardiac glial cell](../../CL/20/CL_0010020.md) SubClassOf [cardiocyte](../../CL/94/CL_0002494.md)
 * [cardiac muscle cell](../../CL/46/CL_0000746.md) SubClassOf [cardiocyte](../../CL/94/CL_0002494.md)
 * [cardiac neuron](../../CL/22/CL_0010022.md) SubClassOf [cardiocyte](../../CL/94/CL_0002494.md)
 * [cardiocyte](../../CL/94/CL_0002494.md) SubClassOf [animal cell](../../CL/48/CL_0000548.md)
 * [cardiocyte](../../CL/94/CL_0002494.md) SubClassOf [part_of](../../BFO/50/BFO_0000050.md) some [primary circulatory organ](../../UBERON/00/UBERON_0007100.md)
 * [cardiocyte](../../CL/94/CL_0002494.md) SubClassOf [somatic cell](../../CL/71/CL_0002371.md)
 * [fibroblast of cardiac tissue](../../CL/48/CL_0002548.md) SubClassOf [cardiocyte](../../CL/94/CL_0002494.md)
 * [primary circulatory organ](../../UBERON/00/UBERON_0007100.md) SubClassOf [has_part](../../BFO/51/BFO_0000051.md) some [cardiocyte](../../CL/94/CL_0002494.md)

## External Comments

