
## Class : skeletal muscle satellite cell

 * *IRI* = http://purl.obolibrary.org/obo/CL_0000594
 * *Label* = skeletal muscle satellite cell
 * *Definition* = An elongated, spindle-shaped, cell that is located between the basal lamina and the plasmalemma of a muscle fiber. These cells are mostly quiescent, but upon activation they divide to produce cells that generate new muscle fibers. [ [database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md) = GOC:tfm, [database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md) = MESH:A11.635.500.700, [database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md) = PMID:21849021, [database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md) = PMID:23303905 ]
 * *Comment* = Skeletal muscle satellite cells are not traditionally referred to as myoblasts.  They are a heterogeneous population whose division, following activiation, contributes to the formation of skeletal muscle fibers and to maintenance of the skeletal muscle statelite cell population.

## Synonyms


## Cross-references


## Subsets


## Superclasses

 * [cell of skeletal muscle](../../CL/88/CL_0000188.md)
 * [muscle precursor cell](../../CL/80/CL_0000680.md)
 * [part_of](../../BFO/50/BFO_0000050.md) some [skeletal muscle tissue](../../UBERON/34/UBERON_0001134.md)

## Equivalencies


## Other Logical Axioms


## Other Annotations

 * *[definition](../../IAO/15/IAO_0000115.md)* = An elongated, spindle-shaped, cell that is located between the basal lamina and the plasmalemma of a muscle fiber. These cells are mostly quiescent, but upon activation they divide to produce cells that generate new muscle fibers.
 * *[rdf-schema#comment](../../nt/rdf-schema#comment.md)* = Skeletal muscle satellite cells are not traditionally referred to as myoblasts.  They are a heterogeneous population whose division, following activiation, contributes to the formation of skeletal muscle fibers and to maintenance of the skeletal muscle statelite cell population.
 * *[rdf-schema#label](../../el/rdf-schema#label.md)* = skeletal muscle satellite cell

## Usage

 * -
 * [activated skeletal muscle satellite cell](../../CL/16/CL_0008016.md) SubClassOf [skeletal muscle satellite cell](../../CL/94/CL_0000594.md)
 * [quiescent skeletal muscle satellite cell](../../CL/12/CL_0008012.md) SubClassOf [skeletal muscle satellite cell](../../CL/94/CL_0000594.md)
 * [skeletal muscle satellite cell](../../CL/94/CL_0000594.md) SubClassOf [cell of skeletal muscle](../../CL/88/CL_0000188.md)
 * [skeletal muscle satellite cell](../../CL/94/CL_0000594.md) SubClassOf [muscle precursor cell](../../CL/80/CL_0000680.md)
 * [skeletal muscle satellite cell](../../CL/94/CL_0000594.md) SubClassOf [part_of](../../BFO/50/BFO_0000050.md) some [skeletal muscle tissue](../../UBERON/34/UBERON_0001134.md)
 * [skeletal muscle satellite myogenic cell](../../CL/20/CL_0008020.md) SubClassOf [skeletal muscle satellite cell](../../CL/94/CL_0000594.md)
 * [skeletal muscle satellite stem cell](../../CL/11/CL_0008011.md) SubClassOf [skeletal muscle satellite cell](../../CL/94/CL_0000594.md)

## External Comments

