
## Class : lymph node

 * *IRI* = http://purl.obolibrary.org/obo/UBERON_0000029
 * *Label* = lymph node
 * *Definition* = Oval or bean shaped bodies (1 - 30 mm in diameter) located along the lymphatic system. Lymph nodes are garrisons of B, T, and other immune cells. Lymph nodes are found all through the body, and act as filters or traps for foreign particles. They contain white blood cells that use oxygen to process. Thus they are important in the proper functioning of the immune system. The lymph node is surrounded by a fibrous capsule, and inside the lymph node the fibrous capsule extends to form trabeculae. The substance of the lymph node is divided into the outer cortex and the inner medulla surrounded by the former all around except for at the hilum, where the medulla comes in direct contact with the surface. Thin reticular fibers, elastin and reticular fibers form a supporting meshwork called reticular network (RN) inside the node, within which the white blood cells (WBCs), most prominently, lymphocytes are tightly packed as follicles in the cortex. Elsewhere, there are only occasional WBCs. The RN provides not just the structural support, but also provide surface for adhesion of the dendritic cells, macrophages and lymphocytes. It allows for exchange of material with blood through the high endothelial venules and provides the growth and regulatory factors necessary for activation and maturation of immune cells[WP]. [[database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md) =  + GAID:947[database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md) =  + Wikipedia:Lymph_node]

## Synonyms

 * lymph gland [[database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md) =  + VHOG:0001273]
 * nodus lymphaticus [[database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md) =  + Wikipedia:Lymph_node[has_synonym_type](../../pe/oboInOwl#hasSynonymType.md) =  + http://purl.obolibrary.org/obo/uberon/core#LATIN]

## Cross-references

 * BTO:0000784
 * CALOHA:TS-0579
 * EFO:0000872
 * EV:0100050
 * FMA:5034
 * GAID:947
 * MA:0000139
 * MAT:0000442
 * MESH:A15.382.520.604.412
 * OpenCyc:Mx4rwLPqLpwpEbGdrcN5Y29ycA
 * SCTID:181756000
 * TAO:0005318
 * UMLS:C0024204 [[oboInOwl#source](../../ce/oboInOwl#source.md) =  + ncithesaurus:Lymph_Node]
 * VHOG:0001273
 * Wikipedia:Lymph_node
 * ZFA:0005318
 * galen:Lymphnode
 * http://upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/b/b8/Illu_lymph_node_structure.png
 * ncithesaurus:Lymph_Node

## Subsets

 * http://purl.obolibrary.org/obo/uberon/core#efo_slim
 * http://purl.obolibrary.org/obo/uberon/core#uberon_slim
 * http://purl.obolibrary.org/obo/uberon/core#vertebrate_core

## Superclasses

 * [organ part](../../UBERON/64/UBERON_0000064.md)
 * [part_of](../../BFO/50/BFO_0000050.md) some [lymphoid system](../../UBERON/65/UBERON_0002465.md)
 * [has_part](../../BFO/51/BFO_0000051.md) some [lymph](../../UBERON/91/UBERON_0002391.md)
 * [continuous_with](../../FMA/72/FMA_85972.md) some [lymphatic vessel](../../UBERON/73/UBERON_0001473.md)

## Equivalencies


## Other Logical Axioms


## Other Annotations

 * *[homology_notes](../../UBPROP/03/UBPROP_0000003.md)* = Lymph nodes that are associated with the lymphatic system have evolved in mammals.[well established][VHOG]
 * *[dubious_for_taxon](../../core#dubious/on/core#dubious_for_taxon.md)* = http://purl.obolibrary.org/obo/NCBITaxon_32443
 * *[homologous_in](../../core#homologous/in/core#homologous_in.md)* = http://purl.obolibrary.org/obo/NCBITaxon_7742
 * *[has_obo_namespace](../../ce/oboInOwl#hasOBONamespace.md)* = uberon
 * *[oboInOwl#id](../../id/oboInOwl#id.md)* = UBERON:0000029

## External Comments

