
## Class : nasal diverticulum

 * *IRI* = http://purl.obolibrary.org/obo/UBERON_0012304
 * *Label* = nasal diverticulum
 * *Definition* = Caudally blind-ending cutaneous pouch lined with skin that occupies the nasoincisive notch. It's ventral and medial walls is formed by the alar fold. It's lateral wall is formed by the external nares and it's dorsal wall is formed by the straight fold. Lined by pigmented predominantly hairless skin. It has an external opening located on the dorsolateral aspect of the &quot;true nostril&quot;. When the horse is exercising, obliteration of the nasal diverticulum greatly widens the nostrils increasing air intake[MURDOCH]. [ [database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md) = ISBN:3899930983, [database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md) = MURDOCH:1367 ]

## Synonyms

 * false nostril
 * nasal trumpet [ [database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md) = ISBN:3899930983 ]
 * soft nose [ [database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md) = ISBN:3899930983 ]

## Cross-references


## Subsets


## Superclasses

 * [skin of face](../../UBERON/21/UBERON_1000021.md)
 * [part_of](../../BFO/50/BFO_0000050.md) some [external naris](../../UBERON/28/UBERON_0005928.md)

## Equivalencies


## Other Logical Axioms


## Other Annotations

 * *[definition](../../IAO/15/IAO_0000115.md)* = Caudally blind-ending cutaneous pouch lined with skin that occupies the nasoincisive notch. It's ventral and medial walls is formed by the alar fold. It's lateral wall is formed by the external nares and it's dorsal wall is formed by the straight fold. Lined by pigmented predominantly hairless skin. It has an external opening located on the dorsolateral aspect of the &quot;true nostril&quot;. When the horse is exercising, obliteration of the nasal diverticulum greatly widens the nostrils increasing air intake[MURDOCH].
 * *[has_related_synonym](../../ym/oboInOwl#hasRelatedSynonym.md)* = false nostril
 * *[has_related_synonym](../../ym/oboInOwl#hasRelatedSynonym.md)* = nasal trumpet
 * *[has_related_synonym](../../ym/oboInOwl#hasRelatedSynonym.md)* = soft nose
 * *[rdf-schema#label](../../el/rdf-schema#label.md)* = nasal diverticulum

## Usage

 * -
 * [nasal diverticulum](../../UBERON/04/UBERON_0012304.md) SubClassOf [part_of](../../BFO/50/BFO_0000050.md) some [external naris](../../UBERON/28/UBERON_0005928.md)
 * [nasal diverticulum](../../UBERON/04/UBERON_0012304.md) SubClassOf [skin of face](../../UBERON/21/UBERON_1000021.md)

## External Comments

