
## Class : epiphysial cluster

 * *IRI* = http://purl.obolibrary.org/obo/UBERON_2007004
 * *Label* = epiphysial cluster
 * *Definition* = Early-developing neuronal cluster of the epiphysis. By 24 hpf the pioneer axon of the dorsoventral diencephalic tract (DVDT) has arisen from the ec and grown ventrally. As this axon encounters axons of the TPOC, it makes a near-90 rostral turn and grows rostrally among axons of the TPOC growing in the opposite direction. Ross et al., 1992. [ [database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md) = ZFIN:curator ]

## Synonyms

 * ec [ [database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md) = TAO:0007004 ]

## Cross-references

 * ZFA:0007004

## Subsets


## Superclasses

 * [tissue](../../UBERON/79/UBERON_0000479.md)
 * [ectoderm-derived structure](../../UBERON/21/UBERON_0004121.md)
 * [part_of](../../BFO/50/BFO_0000050.md) some [pineal body](../../UBERON/05/UBERON_0001905.md)

## Equivalencies


## Other Logical Axioms


## Other Annotations

 * *[definition](../../IAO/15/IAO_0000115.md)* = Early-developing neuronal cluster of the epiphysis. By 24 hpf the pioneer axon of the dorsoventral diencephalic tract (DVDT) has arisen from the ec and grown ventrally. As this axon encounters axons of the TPOC, it makes a near-90 rostral turn and grows rostrally among axons of the TPOC growing in the opposite direction. Ross et al., 1992.
 * *[core#provenance_notes](../../core#provenance/es/core#provenance_notes.md)* = This class was sourced from an external ontology (teleost_anatomy). Its definitions, naming conventions and relationships may need to be checked for compatibility with uberon
 * *[oboInOwl#created_by](../../oboInOwl#created/by/oboInOwl#created_by.md)* = teleost_anatomy_curators
 * *[database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md)* = ZFA:0007004
 * *[has_exact_synonym](../../ym/oboInOwl#hasExactSynonym.md)* = ec
 * *[rdf-schema#label](../../el/rdf-schema#label.md)* = epiphysial cluster

## Usage

 * -
 * [epiphysial cluster](../../UBERON/04/UBERON_2007004.md) SubClassOf [ectoderm-derived structure](../../UBERON/21/UBERON_0004121.md)
 * [epiphysial cluster](../../UBERON/04/UBERON_2007004.md) SubClassOf [part_of](../../BFO/50/BFO_0000050.md) some [pineal body](../../UBERON/05/UBERON_0001905.md)
 * [epiphysial cluster](../../UBERON/04/UBERON_2007004.md) SubClassOf [tissue](../../UBERON/79/UBERON_0000479.md)

## External Comments

