
## Class : sesamoid bone of the peroneus longus muscle

 * *IRI* = http://purl.obolibrary.org/obo/UBERON_0012104
 * *Label* = sesamoid bone of the peroneus longus muscle
 * *Comment* = a coffee bean-shaped constant, large and regular bone. The lateral surface of the bone is convex in all directions and non-articular. The medial surface is covered with hyaline cartilage and articulates by means of a synovial joint with the corresponding facet of the cuboid bone. The histological structure and the mode of ossification of the os peroneum are identical to that of other short bones of the skeleton.

## Synonyms

 * os peroneum [ [database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md) = http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC1261702/ ]

## Cross-references


## Subsets


## Superclasses

 * [sesamoid bone](../../UBERON/79/UBERON_0001479.md)
 * [hindlimb zeugopod bone](../../UBERON/51/UBERON_0004251.md)
 * [appendicular ossicle](../../UBERON/41/UBERON_0011141.md)
 * [part_of](../../BFO/50/BFO_0000050.md) some [hindlimb zeugopod](../../UBERON/23/UBERON_0003823.md)
 * [located_in](../../RO/25/RO_0001025.md) some [fibularis longus](../../UBERON/87/UBERON_0001387.md)
 * [only in taxon](../../RO/60/RO_0002160.md) some [Primates](../../NCBITaxon/43/NCBITaxon_9443.md)
 * [connected to](../../RO/70/RO_0002170.md) some [cuboid bone](../../UBERON/55/UBERON_0001455.md)

## Equivalencies

 * [located_in](../../RO/25/RO_0001025.md) some [fibularis longus](../../UBERON/87/UBERON_0001387.md) and [sesamoid bone](../../UBERON/79/UBERON_0001479.md)

## Other Logical Axioms


## Other Annotations

 * *[has_exact_synonym](../../ym/oboInOwl#hasExactSynonym.md)* = os peroneum
 * *[rdf-schema#comment](../../nt/rdf-schema#comment.md)* = a coffee bean-shaped constant, large and regular bone. The lateral surface of the bone is convex in all directions and non-articular. The medial surface is covered with hyaline cartilage and articulates by means of a synovial joint with the corresponding facet of the cuboid bone. The histological structure and the mode of ossification of the os peroneum are identical to that of other short bones of the skeleton.
 * *[rdf-schema#label](../../el/rdf-schema#label.md)* = sesamoid bone of the peroneus longus muscle

## Usage

 * -
 * [sesamoid bone of the peroneus longus muscle](../../UBERON/04/UBERON_0012104.md) == [located_in](../../RO/25/RO_0001025.md) some [fibularis longus](../../UBERON/87/UBERON_0001387.md) and [sesamoid bone](../../UBERON/79/UBERON_0001479.md)
 * [sesamoid bone of the peroneus longus muscle](../../UBERON/04/UBERON_0012104.md) SubClassOf [appendicular ossicle](../../UBERON/41/UBERON_0011141.md)
 * [sesamoid bone of the peroneus longus muscle](../../UBERON/04/UBERON_0012104.md) SubClassOf [connected to](../../RO/70/RO_0002170.md) some [cuboid bone](../../UBERON/55/UBERON_0001455.md)
 * [sesamoid bone of the peroneus longus muscle](../../UBERON/04/UBERON_0012104.md) SubClassOf [hindlimb zeugopod bone](../../UBERON/51/UBERON_0004251.md)
 * [sesamoid bone of the peroneus longus muscle](../../UBERON/04/UBERON_0012104.md) SubClassOf [located_in](../../RO/25/RO_0001025.md) some [fibularis longus](../../UBERON/87/UBERON_0001387.md)
 * [sesamoid bone of the peroneus longus muscle](../../UBERON/04/UBERON_0012104.md) SubClassOf [only in taxon](../../RO/60/RO_0002160.md) some [Primates](../../NCBITaxon/43/NCBITaxon_9443.md)
 * [sesamoid bone of the peroneus longus muscle](../../UBERON/04/UBERON_0012104.md) SubClassOf [part_of](../../BFO/50/BFO_0000050.md) some [hindlimb zeugopod](../../UBERON/23/UBERON_0003823.md)
 * [sesamoid bone of the peroneus longus muscle](../../UBERON/04/UBERON_0012104.md) SubClassOf [sesamoid bone](../../UBERON/79/UBERON_0001479.md)

## External Comments

