
## Class : scleral ossicle

 * *IRI* = http://purl.obolibrary.org/obo/UBERON_0010290
 * *Label* = scleral ossicle
 * *Definition* = A bony plate around the eyes, are situated at the corneal-scleral limbus. They do not articulate with other elements of the skull. Typically, the scleral ossicles overlap the rim of a cup of scleral cartilage that supports the eyeball. Situated near the equator of the eye and may slightly overlap the rim of scleral cartilage. [ [database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md) = http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/17051547 ]

## Synonyms

 * scleral ossicle [ [database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md) = http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/17051547 ]
 * sclerotic bone [ [database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md) = ZFA:0001411 ]
 * sclerotic ossicle

## Cross-references

 * http://www.snomedbrowser.com/Codes/Details/45632000

## Subsets


## Superclasses

 * [scleral skeletal element](../../UBERON/96/UBERON_0010296.md)
 * [part_of](../../BFO/50/BFO_0000050.md) some [orbit of skull](../../UBERON/97/UBERON_0001697.md)
 * [part_of](../../BFO/50/BFO_0000050.md) some [facial skeleton](../../UBERON/56/UBERON_0011156.md)

## Equivalencies


## Other Logical Axioms


## Other Annotations

 * *[definition](../../IAO/15/IAO_0000115.md)* = A bony plate around the eyes, are situated at the corneal-scleral limbus. They do not articulate with other elements of the skull. Typically, the scleral ossicles overlap the rim of a cup of scleral cartilage that supports the eyeball. Situated near the equator of the eye and may slightly overlap the rim of scleral cartilage.
 * *[taxon_notes](../../UBPROP/08/UBPROP_0000008.md)* = The distribution of scleral ossicles and scleral cartilage among verte- brate taxa is not the same. Some taxa (e.g., birds) have both elements; some only have one element (e.g., crocodiles only have a scleral cartilage); while others (e.g., snakes) have neither element (Walls, 1942) number of ossicles making up the sclerotic ring as well as the shape of both the individual plates and the sclerotic ring is variable among tetrapod taxa.... It is therefore extremely likely that scleral skeletal elements (ossicles and cartilage) of all rep- tiles (including birds) are homologous (but cannot be assumed for reptiles and teleosts)
 * *[function_notes](../../UBPROP/09/UBPROP_0000009.md)* = The function of these elements is to support the eye from within the sclera; scleral ossicles play an additional important role during accommodation in terrestrial vertebrates (Lemmrich, 1931; Walls, 1942; King and McLelland, 1984). 
 * *[database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md)* = http://www.snomedbrowser.com/Codes/Details/45632000
 * *[has_exact_synonym](../../ym/oboInOwl#hasExactSynonym.md)* = scleral ossicle
 * *[has_exact_synonym](../../ym/oboInOwl#hasExactSynonym.md)* = sclerotic bone
 * *[has_exact_synonym](../../ym/oboInOwl#hasExactSynonym.md)* = sclerotic ossicle
 * *[rdf-schema#label](../../el/rdf-schema#label.md)* = scleral ossicle

## Usage

 * -
 * [endochondral scleral ossicle](../../UBERON/97/UBERON_0010297.md) SubClassOf [scleral ossicle](../../UBERON/90/UBERON_0010290.md)
 * [intramembranous scleral ossicle](../../UBERON/98/UBERON_0010298.md) SubClassOf [scleral ossicle](../../UBERON/90/UBERON_0010290.md)
 * [owl#Nothing](../../ng/owl#Nothing.md) == [in taxon](../../RO/62/RO_0002162.md) some [Chondrichthyes](../../NCBITaxon/77/NCBITaxon_7777.md) and [scleral ossicle](../../UBERON/90/UBERON_0010290.md)
 * [owl#Nothing](../../ng/owl#Nothing.md) == [in taxon](../../RO/62/RO_0002162.md) some [Dipnoi](../../NCBITaxon/78/NCBITaxon_7878.md) and [scleral ossicle](../../UBERON/90/UBERON_0010290.md)
 * [scleral ossicle](../../UBERON/90/UBERON_0010290.md) SubClassOf [part_of](../../BFO/50/BFO_0000050.md) some [facial skeleton](../../UBERON/56/UBERON_0011156.md)
 * [scleral ossicle](../../UBERON/90/UBERON_0010290.md) SubClassOf [part_of](../../BFO/50/BFO_0000050.md) some [orbit of skull](../../UBERON/97/UBERON_0001697.md)
 * [scleral ossicle](../../UBERON/90/UBERON_0010290.md) SubClassOf [scleral skeletal element](../../UBERON/96/UBERON_0010296.md)
 * [scleral sesamoid bone](../../UBERON/11/UBERON_0010311.md) SubClassOf [scleral ossicle](../../UBERON/90/UBERON_0010290.md)
 * [sclerotic ring](../../UBERON/04/UBERON_0007804.md) SubClassOf [scleral ossicle](../../UBERON/90/UBERON_0010290.md)

## External Comments

