
## Class : deep cervical fascia

 * *IRI* = http://purl.obolibrary.org/obo/UBERON_0013490
 * *Label* = deep cervical fascia
 * *Definition* = The deep cervical fascia (or fascia colli in older texts) lies under cover of the Platysma, and invests the neck; it also forms sheaths for the carotid vessels, and for the structures situated in front of the vertebral column. Its attachment to the hyoid bone prevents the formation of a dewlap. The investing portion of the fascia is attached behind to the ligamentum nucha and to the spinous process of the seventh cervical vertebra. The 'alar fascia' is a portion of deep cervical fascia. [ [database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md) = http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Deep_cervical_fascia ]

## Synonyms

 * deep cervical fascia [ [database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md) = FMA:21791 ]
 * deep fascia of neck [ [database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md) = FMA:21791 ]
 * investing cervical fascia [ [database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md) = FMA:21791 ]
 * investing layer of cervical fascia [ [database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md) = FMA:21791 ]
 * fascia coli [ [database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md) = http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Deep_cervical_fascia ]
 * fascia colli [ [database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md) = http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Deep_cervical_fascia ]

## Cross-references

 * FMA:21791
 * http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Deep_cervical_fascia

## Subsets


## Superclasses

 * [cervical fascia](../../UBERON/91/UBERON_0013491.md)
 * [immediately_deep_to](../../BSPO/07/BSPO_0001107.md) some [platysma](../../UBERON/67/UBERON_0005467.md)

## Equivalencies


## Other Logical Axioms


## Other Annotations

 * *[definition](../../IAO/15/IAO_0000115.md)* = The deep cervical fascia (or fascia colli in older texts) lies under cover of the Platysma, and invests the neck; it also forms sheaths for the carotid vessels, and for the structures situated in front of the vertebral column. Its attachment to the hyoid bone prevents the formation of a dewlap. The investing portion of the fascia is attached behind to the ligamentum nucha and to the spinous process of the seventh cervical vertebra. The 'alar fascia' is a portion of deep cervical fascia.
 * *[database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md)* = FMA:21791
 * *[database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md)* = http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Deep_cervical_fascia
 * *[has_exact_synonym](../../ym/oboInOwl#hasExactSynonym.md)* = deep cervical fascia
 * *[has_exact_synonym](../../ym/oboInOwl#hasExactSynonym.md)* = deep fascia of neck
 * *[has_exact_synonym](../../ym/oboInOwl#hasExactSynonym.md)* = investing cervical fascia
 * *[has_exact_synonym](../../ym/oboInOwl#hasExactSynonym.md)* = investing layer of cervical fascia
 * *[has_related_synonym](../../ym/oboInOwl#hasRelatedSynonym.md)* = fascia coli
 * *[has_related_synonym](../../ym/oboInOwl#hasRelatedSynonym.md)* = fascia colli
 * *[rdf-schema#label](../../el/rdf-schema#label.md)* = deep cervical fascia

## Usage

 * -
 * [deep cervical fascia](../../UBERON/90/UBERON_0013490.md) SubClassOf [cervical fascia](../../UBERON/91/UBERON_0013491.md)
 * [deep cervical fascia](../../UBERON/90/UBERON_0013490.md) SubClassOf [immediately_deep_to](../../BSPO/07/BSPO_0001107.md) some [platysma](../../UBERON/67/UBERON_0005467.md)

## External Comments

