
## Class : infraorbital series

 * *IRI* = http://purl.obolibrary.org/obo/UBERON_2001709
 * *Label* = infraorbital series
 * *Definition* = Anatomical cluster that is the series of dermal bones surrounding the orbit and associated with the infraorbital sensory canal. [ [database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md) = TAO:GA_TG ]
 * *Comment* = The infraorbital series may include the antorbital, a variable number of infraorbitals, and dermosphenotic (or posteriormost dorsal infraorbital). The infraorbital series may be formed by seven (primitively) or less bones in teleosts. Consequently, the so called dermosphenotic may correspond to the seventh, sixth or fifth bone, etc., depending on the taxon.

## Synonyms

 * circumorbital series [ [database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md) = TAO:0001709 ]

## Cross-references

 * ZFA:0001649

## Subsets


## Superclasses

 * [anatomical cluster](../../UBERON/77/UBERON_0000477.md)
 * [part_of](../../BFO/50/BFO_0000050.md) some [dermatocranium](../../UBERON/13/UBERON_0003113.md)
 * [composed_primarily_of](../../RO/73/RO_0002473.md) some [infraorbital](../../UBERON/76/UBERON_2000376.md)

## Equivalencies


## Other Logical Axioms


## Other Annotations

 * *[definition](../../IAO/15/IAO_0000115.md)* = Anatomical cluster that is the series of dermal bones surrounding the orbit and associated with the infraorbital sensory canal.
 * *[core#provenance_notes](../../core#provenance/es/core#provenance_notes.md)* = This class was sourced from an external ontology (teleost_anatomy). Its definitions, naming conventions and relationships may need to be checked for compatibility with uberon
 * *[oboInOwl#created_by](../../oboInOwl#created/by/oboInOwl#created_by.md)* = teleost_anatomy_curators
 * *[database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md)* = ZFA:0001649
 * *[has_related_synonym](../../ym/oboInOwl#hasRelatedSynonym.md)* = circumorbital series
 * *[rdf-schema#comment](../../nt/rdf-schema#comment.md)* = The infraorbital series may include the antorbital, a variable number of infraorbitals, and dermosphenotic (or posteriormost dorsal infraorbital). The infraorbital series may be formed by seven (primitively) or less bones in teleosts. Consequently, the so called dermosphenotic may correspond to the seventh, sixth or fifth bone, etc., depending on the taxon.
 * *[rdf-schema#label](../../el/rdf-schema#label.md)* = infraorbital series

## Usage

 * -
 * [antorbital](../../UBERON/27/UBERON_2000127.md) SubClassOf [part_of](../../BFO/50/BFO_0000050.md) some [infraorbital series](../../UBERON/09/UBERON_2001709.md)
 * [infraorbital series](../../UBERON/09/UBERON_2001709.md) SubClassOf [anatomical cluster](../../UBERON/77/UBERON_0000477.md)
 * [infraorbital series](../../UBERON/09/UBERON_2001709.md) SubClassOf [composed_primarily_of](../../RO/73/RO_0002473.md) some [infraorbital](../../UBERON/76/UBERON_2000376.md)
 * [infraorbital series](../../UBERON/09/UBERON_2001709.md) SubClassOf [part_of](../../BFO/50/BFO_0000050.md) some [dermatocranium](../../UBERON/13/UBERON_0003113.md)
 * [infraorbital](../../UBERON/76/UBERON_2000376.md) SubClassOf [part_of](../../BFO/50/BFO_0000050.md) some [infraorbital series](../../UBERON/09/UBERON_2001709.md)
 * [supraorbital bone](../../UBERON/91/UBERON_2000691.md) SubClassOf [part_of](../../BFO/50/BFO_0000050.md) some [infraorbital series](../../UBERON/09/UBERON_2001709.md)

## External Comments

