
## Class : prostate gland ventral lobe

 * *IRI* = http://purl.obolibrary.org/obo/UBERON_0007615
 * *Label* = prostate gland ventral lobe
 * *Definition* = Prostate gland lobe that in the mouse has the following characteristics: grossly, clear, gelatinous, and leaf-like; originates ventrally and wraps incompletely around the urethra dorsally, bilaterally. Simple columnar epithelium with the least amount of infolding. Secretory cells are oval and have slightly foamy cytoplasm; nuclei and basal nucleoli are inconspicuous. The secretion is pale and homogeneous. The stroma is thin [ [database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md) = http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/15163300 ]

## Synonyms

 * ventral prostate

## Cross-references

 * BTO:0000490
 * EMAPA:29836
 * MA:0001740

## Subsets

 * http://purl.obolibrary.org/obo/uberon/core#pheno_slim

## Superclasses

 * [lobe of prostate](../../UBERON/28/UBERON_0001328.md)
 * [contributes to morphology of](../../RO/33/RO_0002433.md) some [prostate gland](../../UBERON/67/UBERON_0002367.md)

## Equivalencies


## Other Logical Axioms


## Other Annotations

 * *[definition](../../IAO/15/IAO_0000115.md)* = Prostate gland lobe that in the mouse has the following characteristics: grossly, clear, gelatinous, and leaf-like; originates ventrally and wraps incompletely around the urethra dorsally, bilaterally. Simple columnar epithelium with the least amount of infolding. Secretory cells are oval and have slightly foamy cytoplasm; nuclei and basal nucleoli are inconspicuous. The secretion is pale and homogeneous. The stroma is thin
 * *[database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md)* = BTO:0000490
 * *[database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md)* = EMAPA:29836
 * *[database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md)* = MA:0001740
 * *[has_related_synonym](../../ym/oboInOwl#hasRelatedSynonym.md)* = ventral prostate
 * *[in_subset](../../et/oboInOwl#inSubset.md)* = http://purl.obolibrary.org/obo/uberon/core#pheno_slim
 * *[rdf-schema#label](../../el/rdf-schema#label.md)* = prostate gland ventral lobe

## Usage

 * -
 * [owl#Nothing](../../ng/owl#Nothing.md) == [in taxon](../../RO/62/RO_0002162.md) some [Homo sapiens](../../NCBITaxon/06/NCBITaxon_9606.md) and [prostate gland ventral lobe](../../UBERON/15/UBERON_0007615.md)
 * [prostate gland ventral lobe](../../UBERON/15/UBERON_0007615.md) SubClassOf [contributes to morphology of](../../RO/33/RO_0002433.md) some [prostate gland](../../UBERON/67/UBERON_0002367.md)
 * [prostate gland ventral lobe](../../UBERON/15/UBERON_0007615.md) SubClassOf [lobe of prostate](../../UBERON/28/UBERON_0001328.md)

## External Comments

