
## Class : brille

 * *IRI* = http://purl.obolibrary.org/obo/UBERON_0010515
 * *Label* = brille
 * *Definition* = A layer of transparent, immovable disc-shaped skin or scale covering the eyes of some animals for protection, especially in animals without eyelids. The brille has evolved from a fusion of the upper and lower eyelids. [ [database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md) = http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Brille ]
 * *Comment* = there are transitional stages between total lid loss and full brille formation (Bellairs & Boyd, 1947).

## Synonyms

 * eye cap
 * ocular scale

## Cross-references

 * http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Brille

## Subsets


## Superclasses

 * [skin of face](../../UBERON/21/UBERON_1000021.md)
 * [part_of](../../BFO/50/BFO_0000050.md) some [camera-type eye](../../UBERON/19/UBERON_0000019.md)
 * [only in taxon](../../RO/60/RO_0002160.md) some [Sauria](../../NCBITaxon/61/NCBITaxon_32561.md)
 * [has_fused_element](../../RO/74/RO_0002374.md) some [upper eyelid](../../UBERON/12/UBERON_0001712.md)
 * [has_fused_element](../../RO/74/RO_0002374.md) some [lower eyelid](../../UBERON/13/UBERON_0001713.md)

## Equivalencies


## Other Logical Axioms


## Other Annotations

 * *[definition](../../IAO/15/IAO_0000115.md)* = A layer of transparent, immovable disc-shaped skin or scale covering the eyes of some animals for protection, especially in animals without eyelids. The brille has evolved from a fusion of the upper and lower eyelids.
 * *[taxon_notes](../../UBPROP/08/UBPROP_0000008.md)* = In snakes, there is no eyelid and the brille is clear and cannot be distinguished except when the animal is becoming ready for ecdysis. At that time, it becomes cloudy and is visible as a cover over the eye. When the snake moults, the brille is also shed as part of its skin. The Brilles protect their eyes from dust and dirt and gives them a 'glassy-eyed' blank appearance Snakes, flap-footed lizards, night lizards, and some skinks have brilles. All geckos except those in the subfamily Eublepharinae (eyelid geckos) possess brilles. Fish also have transparent eyelids called adipose eyelids.
 * *[database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md)* = http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Brille
 * *[has_related_synonym](../../ym/oboInOwl#hasRelatedSynonym.md)* = eye cap
 * *[has_related_synonym](../../ym/oboInOwl#hasRelatedSynonym.md)* = ocular scale
 * *[rdf-schema#comment](../../nt/rdf-schema#comment.md)* = there are transitional stages between total lid loss and full brille formation (Bellairs & Boyd, 1947).
 * *[rdf-schema#label](../../el/rdf-schema#label.md)* = brille

## Usage

 * -
 * [brille](../../UBERON/15/UBERON_0010515.md) SubClassOf [has_fused_element](../../RO/74/RO_0002374.md) some [lower eyelid](../../UBERON/13/UBERON_0001713.md)
 * [brille](../../UBERON/15/UBERON_0010515.md) SubClassOf [has_fused_element](../../RO/74/RO_0002374.md) some [upper eyelid](../../UBERON/12/UBERON_0001712.md)
 * [brille](../../UBERON/15/UBERON_0010515.md) SubClassOf [only in taxon](../../RO/60/RO_0002160.md) some [Sauria](../../NCBITaxon/61/NCBITaxon_32561.md)
 * [brille](../../UBERON/15/UBERON_0010515.md) SubClassOf [part_of](../../BFO/50/BFO_0000050.md) some [camera-type eye](../../UBERON/19/UBERON_0000019.md)
 * [brille](../../UBERON/15/UBERON_0010515.md) SubClassOf [skin of face](../../UBERON/21/UBERON_1000021.md)

## External Comments

