
## Class : cutaneous trunci muscle

 * *IRI* = http://purl.obolibrary.org/obo/UBERON_0011415
 * *Label* = cutaneous trunci muscle
 * *Definition* = Lying just below the skin, cutaneus trunci is one of very few cutaneus muscles. It composes of a thin sheets of muscle that spred over the body in the superficial fasciae. Their role is to twich the skin to rid of pests etc. Cuteneus muscles are found in all domestic species. [ [database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md) = MURDOCH:2210 ]
 * *Comment* = covers the entire body with a thin layer of muscle under the deepest layer of the skin. When an area of neuronal subluxation is stimulated with the activator, the cutaneous trunci muscle contracts and causes an involuntary reflexive spasm or "twitch" of the skin

## Synonyms

 * cutaneous trunci [ [database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md) = MA:0002285 ]

## Cross-references

 * MA:0002285
 * http://ncicb.nci.nih.gov/xml/owl/EVS/Cutaneous_Trunci

## Subsets


## Superclasses

 * [cutaneous muscle](../../UBERON/21/UBERON_0006821.md)

## Equivalencies


## Other Logical Axioms


## Other Annotations

 * *[definition](../../IAO/15/IAO_0000115.md)* = Lying just below the skin, cutaneus trunci is one of very few cutaneus muscles. It composes of a thin sheets of muscle that spred over the body in the superficial fasciae. Their role is to twich the skin to rid of pests etc. Cuteneus muscles are found in all domestic species.
 * *[database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md)* = MA:0002285
 * *[database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md)* = http://ncicb.nci.nih.gov/xml/owl/EVS/Cutaneous_Trunci
 * *[has_exact_synonym](../../ym/oboInOwl#hasExactSynonym.md)* = cutaneous trunci
 * *[rdf-schema#comment](../../nt/rdf-schema#comment.md)* = covers the entire body with a thin layer of muscle under the deepest layer of the skin. When an area of neuronal subluxation is stimulated with the activator, the cutaneous trunci muscle contracts and causes an involuntary reflexive spasm or "twitch" of the skin
 * *[rdf-schema#label](../../el/rdf-schema#label.md)* = cutaneous trunci muscle

## Usage

 * -
 * [cutaneous trunci muscle](../../UBERON/15/UBERON_0011415.md) SubClassOf [cutaneous muscle](../../UBERON/21/UBERON_0006821.md)

## External Comments

