
## Class : pleural effusion

 * *IRI* = http://purl.obolibrary.org/obo/UBERON_0000175
 * *Label* = pleural effusion
 * *Definition* = Pleural effusion is a bodily fluid that is produced in exess and accumulates in the pleural cavity, the fluid-filled space that surrounds the lungs. Excessive amounts of such fluid can impair breathing by limiting the expansion of the lungs during inhalation. [ [database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md) = ENVO:02000033 ]
 * *Comment* = Editor noyes: cede to MPATH? Note the ncit class is under finding.

## Synonyms


## Cross-references

 * ENVO:02000033
 * OpenCyc:Mx4rLaTGCK2TEduAAAAOpmP6tw
 * http://ncicb.nci.nih.gov/xml/owl/EVS/Pleural_Effusion

## Subsets


## Superclasses

 * [pleural fluid](../../UBERON/87/UBERON_0001087.md)
 * [located_in](../../RO/25/RO_0001025.md) some [pleural cavity](../../UBERON/02/UBERON_0002402.md)

## Equivalencies


## Other Logical Axioms


## Other Annotations

 * *[definition](../../IAO/15/IAO_0000115.md)* = Pleural effusion is a bodily fluid that is produced in exess and accumulates in the pleural cavity, the fluid-filled space that surrounds the lungs. Excessive amounts of such fluid can impair breathing by limiting the expansion of the lungs during inhalation.
 * *[database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md)* = ENVO:02000033
 * *[database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md)* = OpenCyc:Mx4rLaTGCK2TEduAAAAOpmP6tw
 * *[database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md)* = http://ncicb.nci.nih.gov/xml/owl/EVS/Pleural_Effusion
 * *[rdf-schema#comment](../../nt/rdf-schema#comment.md)* = Editor noyes: cede to MPATH? Note the ncit class is under finding.
 * *[rdf-schema#label](../../el/rdf-schema#label.md)* = pleural effusion

## Usage

 * -
 * [pleural effusion](../../UBERON/75/UBERON_0000175.md) SubClassOf [located_in](../../RO/25/RO_0001025.md) some [pleural cavity](../../UBERON/02/UBERON_0002402.md)
 * [pleural effusion](../../UBERON/75/UBERON_0000175.md) SubClassOf [pleural fluid](../../UBERON/87/UBERON_0001087.md)

## External Comments

