
## Class : nasopalatine nerve

 * *IRI* = http://purl.obolibrary.org/obo/UBERON_0008810
 * *Label* = nasopalatine nerve
 * *Definition* = One branch of the posterior superior nasal branches (trigeminal, maxillary branch), longer and larger than the others, is named the nasopalatine nerve (sometimes called the long sphenopalatine nerve). It enters the nasal cavity through the sphenopalatine foramen, passes across the roof of the nasal cavity below the orifice of the sphenoidal sinus to reach the septum, and then runs obliquely downward and forward between the periosteum and mucous membrane of the lower part of the septum. It descends to the roof of the mouth through the incisive canal and communicates with the corresponding nerve of the opposite side and with the greater palatine nerve. It supplies the palatal structures around the upper central and lateral incisors and the canines (the upper front six teeth). It also furnishes a few filaments to the mucous membrane of the nasal septum. The medial superior posterior nasal branches of maxillary nerve usually branches from the nasopalatine nerve. [ [database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md) = http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Nasopalatine_nerve ]

## Synonyms

 * Scarpa's nerve [ [database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md) = FMA:52797 ]
 * naso-palatine nerve [ [database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md) = http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Nasopalatine_nerve ]
 * nasopalatine [ [database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md) = http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Nasopalatine_nerve ]
 * nasopalatine nerves [ [database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md) = http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Nasopalatine_nerve ]
 * nervus nasopalatinus [ [database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md) = http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Nasopalatine_nerve, [has_synonym_type](../../pe/oboInOwl#hasSynonymType.md) = http://purl.obolibrary.org/obo/uberon/core#LATIN ]

## Cross-references

 * BAMS:npal
 * FMA:52797
 * http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Nasopalatine_nerve

## Subsets


## Superclasses

 * [nerve of head region](../../UBERON/79/UBERON_0011779.md)
 * [branching part of](../../RO/80/RO_0002380.md) some [maxillary nerve](../../UBERON/77/UBERON_0000377.md)

## Equivalencies


## Other Logical Axioms


## Other Annotations

 * *[definition](../../IAO/15/IAO_0000115.md)* = One branch of the posterior superior nasal branches (trigeminal, maxillary branch), longer and larger than the others, is named the nasopalatine nerve (sometimes called the long sphenopalatine nerve). It enters the nasal cavity through the sphenopalatine foramen, passes across the roof of the nasal cavity below the orifice of the sphenoidal sinus to reach the septum, and then runs obliquely downward and forward between the periosteum and mucous membrane of the lower part of the septum. It descends to the roof of the mouth through the incisive canal and communicates with the corresponding nerve of the opposite side and with the greater palatine nerve. It supplies the palatal structures around the upper central and lateral incisors and the canines (the upper front six teeth). It also furnishes a few filaments to the mucous membrane of the nasal septum. The medial superior posterior nasal branches of maxillary nerve usually branches from the nasopalatine nerve.
 * *[database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md)* = BAMS:npal
 * *[database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md)* = FMA:52797
 * *[database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md)* = http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Nasopalatine_nerve
 * *[has_exact_synonym](../../ym/oboInOwl#hasExactSynonym.md)* = Scarpa's nerve
 * *[has_related_synonym](../../ym/oboInOwl#hasRelatedSynonym.md)* = naso-palatine nerve
 * *[has_related_synonym](../../ym/oboInOwl#hasRelatedSynonym.md)* = nasopalatine
 * *[has_related_synonym](../../ym/oboInOwl#hasRelatedSynonym.md)* = nasopalatine nerves
 * *[has_related_synonym](../../ym/oboInOwl#hasRelatedSynonym.md)* = nervus nasopalatinus
 * *[rdf-schema#label](../../el/rdf-schema#label.md)* = nasopalatine nerve
 * *[depicted_by](../../depicted/by/depicted_by.md)* = http://upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/d/d1/Gray858.png

## Usage

 * -
 * [foramina of scarpa](../../UBERON/09/UBERON_0008809.md) SubClassOf [surrounds](../../RO/21/RO_0002221.md) some [nasopalatine nerve](../../UBERON/10/UBERON_0008810.md)
 * [nasopalatine nerve](../../UBERON/10/UBERON_0008810.md) SubClassOf [branching part of](../../RO/80/RO_0002380.md) some [maxillary nerve](../../UBERON/77/UBERON_0000377.md)
 * [nasopalatine nerve](../../UBERON/10/UBERON_0008810.md) SubClassOf [nerve of head region](../../UBERON/79/UBERON_0011779.md)

## External Comments

