
## Class : tibial artery

 * *IRI* = http://purl.obolibrary.org/obo/UBERON_0007610
 * *Label* = tibial artery
 * *Definition* = The anterior and posterior arteries created at the bifurcation of the popliteal artery. The anterior tibial artery begins at the lower border of the popliteus muscle and lies along the tibia at the distal part of the leg to surface superficially anterior to the ankle joint. Its branches are distributed throughout the leg, ankle, and pes. The posterior tibial artery begins at the lower border of the popliteus muscle, lies behind the tibia in the lower part of its course, and is found situated between the medial malleolus and the medial process of the calcaneal tuberosity. Its branches are distributed throughout the leg and foot. [ [database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md) = MESH:A07.231.114.895 ]

## Synonyms


## Cross-references

 * GAID:514
 * MA:0002067
 * MESH:A07.231.114.895
 * UMLS:C0085427 [ [oboInOwl#source](../../ce/oboInOwl#source.md) = ncithesaurus:Tibial_Artery ]
 * http://linkedlifedata.com/resource/umls/id/C0085427
 * http://ncicb.nci.nih.gov/xml/owl/EVS/Tibial_Artery
 * http://www.snomedbrowser.com/Codes/Details/181351007

## Subsets


## Superclasses

 * [hindlimb blood vessel](../../UBERON/16/UBERON_0003516.md)
 * [systemic artery](../../UBERON/73/UBERON_0004573.md)
 * [part_of](../../BFO/50/BFO_0000050.md) some [hindlimb](../../UBERON/03/UBERON_0002103.md)
 * [branching part of](../../RO/80/RO_0002380.md) some [popliteal artery](../../UBERON/50/UBERON_0002250.md)

## Equivalencies


## Other Logical Axioms


## Other Annotations

 * *[definition](../../IAO/15/IAO_0000115.md)* = The anterior and posterior arteries created at the bifurcation of the popliteal artery. The anterior tibial artery begins at the lower border of the popliteus muscle and lies along the tibia at the distal part of the leg to surface superficially anterior to the ankle joint. Its branches are distributed throughout the leg, ankle, and pes. The posterior tibial artery begins at the lower border of the popliteus muscle, lies behind the tibia in the lower part of its course, and is found situated between the medial malleolus and the medial process of the calcaneal tuberosity. Its branches are distributed throughout the leg and foot.
 * *[database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md)* = GAID:514
 * *[database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md)* = MA:0002067
 * *[database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md)* = MESH:A07.231.114.895
 * *[database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md)* = UMLS:C0085427
 * *[database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md)* = http://linkedlifedata.com/resource/umls/id/C0085427
 * *[database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md)* = http://ncicb.nci.nih.gov/xml/owl/EVS/Tibial_Artery
 * *[database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md)* = http://www.snomedbrowser.com/Codes/Details/181351007
 * *[rdf-schema#label](../../el/rdf-schema#label.md)* = tibial artery

## Usage

 * -
 * [anterior tibial artery](../../UBERON/37/UBERON_0001537.md) SubClassOf [tibial artery](../../UBERON/10/UBERON_0007610.md)
 * [posterior tibial artery](../../UBERON/38/UBERON_0001538.md) SubClassOf [tibial artery](../../UBERON/10/UBERON_0007610.md)
 * [tibial artery](../../UBERON/10/UBERON_0007610.md) SubClassOf [branching part of](../../RO/80/RO_0002380.md) some [popliteal artery](../../UBERON/50/UBERON_0002250.md)
 * [tibial artery](../../UBERON/10/UBERON_0007610.md) SubClassOf [hindlimb blood vessel](../../UBERON/16/UBERON_0003516.md)
 * [tibial artery](../../UBERON/10/UBERON_0007610.md) SubClassOf [part_of](../../BFO/50/BFO_0000050.md) some [hindlimb](../../UBERON/03/UBERON_0002103.md)
 * [tibial artery](../../UBERON/10/UBERON_0007610.md) SubClassOf [systemic artery](../../UBERON/73/UBERON_0004573.md)

## External Comments

