
## Class : median palatocerebral vein

 * *IRI* = http://purl.obolibrary.org/obo/UBERON_2005055
 * *Label* = median palatocerebral vein
 * *Definition* = Drains the PLA loop proceeds straight caudally along the cranial midline just above the pharynx, just below the diencephalon. Forms a 'T' with the palatocerebral veins. Isogai et al. 2001. [ [database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md) = ZFIN:curator ]

## Synonyms

 * MPLV [ [database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md) = TAO:0005055 ]

## Cross-references

 * ZFA:0005055

## Subsets


## Superclasses

 * [head blood vessel](../../UBERON/96/UBERON_0003496.md)
 * [craniocervical region vein](../../UBERON/41/UBERON_0009141.md)
 * [part_of](../../BFO/50/BFO_0000050.md) some [vasculature of head](../../UBERON/00/UBERON_0002200.md)

## Equivalencies


## Other Logical Axioms


## Other Annotations

 * *[definition](../../IAO/15/IAO_0000115.md)* = Drains the PLA loop proceeds straight caudally along the cranial midline just above the pharynx, just below the diencephalon. Forms a 'T' with the palatocerebral veins. Isogai et al. 2001.
 * *[core#provenance_notes](../../core#provenance/es/core#provenance_notes.md)* = This class was sourced from an external ontology (teleost_anatomy). Its definitions, naming conventions and relationships may need to be checked for compatibility with uberon
 * *[oboInOwl#created_by](../../oboInOwl#created/by/oboInOwl#created_by.md)* = teleost_anatomy_curators
 * *[database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md)* = ZFA:0005055
 * *[has_exact_synonym](../../ym/oboInOwl#hasExactSynonym.md)* = MPLV
 * *[rdf-schema#label](../../el/rdf-schema#label.md)* = median palatocerebral vein

## Usage

 * -
 * [median palatocerebral vein](../../UBERON/55/UBERON_2005055.md) SubClassOf [craniocervical region vein](../../UBERON/41/UBERON_0009141.md)
 * [median palatocerebral vein](../../UBERON/55/UBERON_2005055.md) SubClassOf [head blood vessel](../../UBERON/96/UBERON_0003496.md)
 * [median palatocerebral vein](../../UBERON/55/UBERON_2005055.md) SubClassOf [part_of](../../BFO/50/BFO_0000050.md) some [vasculature of head](../../UBERON/00/UBERON_0002200.md)

## External Comments

