
## Class : zona reticularis of adrenal gland

 * *IRI* = http://purl.obolibrary.org/obo/UBERON_0002055
 * *Label* = zona reticularis of adrenal gland
 * *Definition* = The zona reticularis is the innermost layer of the adrenal cortex, lying deep to the zona fasciculata and superficial to the adrenal medulla. The cells are arranged cords that project in different directions giving a net-like appearance (L. reticulum - net). Cells in the zona reticularis produce precursor androgens including dehydroepiandrosterone (DHEA) and androstenedione from cholesterol. DHEA is further converted to DHEA-sulfate via a sulfotransferase, SULT2A1. These precursors are not further converted in the adrenal cortex as the cells lack 3?-hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase. Instead, they are released into the blood stream and taken up in the testis and ovaries to produce testosterone and the estrogens respectively. In some animals like rodents, the reticularis layer does contain 3?-hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase, which along with other enzymes present results in the production of corticosteroids like the fasciculata. In rodents too, the lack of 17alpha-hydroxylase results in the synthesis of corticosterone instead of cortisol as in the human. [WP,unvetted]. [ [database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md) = Wikipedia:Zona_reticularis ]

## Synonyms

 * adrenal gland zona reticularis [ [database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md) = MA:0001892 ]
 * zona reticularis
 * zona reticularis of suprarenal gland

## Cross-references

 * FMA:69236
 * GAID:450
 * MA:0001892
 * MESH:A06.407.071.140.970
 * SCTID:47325000
 * Wikipedia:Zona_reticularis
 * http://upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/5/5c/Gray1185.png
 * http://upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/5/5c/Gray1185.png/200px-Gray1185.png

## Subsets

 * http://purl.obolibrary.org/obo/uberon/core#uberon_slim

## Superclasses

 * [adrenal gland cortex zone](../../UBERON/53/UBERON_0009753.md)
 * [structure with developmental contribution from neural crest](../../UBERON/14/UBERON_0010314.md)
 * [part_of](../../BFO/50/BFO_0000050.md) some [adrenal cortex](../../UBERON/35/UBERON_0001235.md)
 * [has_part](../../BFO/51/BFO_0000051.md) some [type III cell of adrenal cortex](../../CL/37/CL_0002137.md)
 * [has_part](../../BFO/51/BFO_0000051.md) some [adrenal cortex chromaffin cell](../../CL/27/CL_1000427.md)

## Equivalencies


## Other Logical Axioms


## Other Annotations


## Usage


## External Comments

