
## Class : neutrophilic metamyelocyte

 * *IRI* = http://purl.obolibrary.org/obo/CL_0000582
 * *Label* = neutrophilic metamyelocyte
 * *Definition* = A neutrophil precursor in the granulocytic series, being a cell intermediate in development between a myelocyte and the band form neutrophil. The protein synthesis seen in earlier stages decreases or stops; the nucleus becomes indented where the indentation is smaller than half the distance to the farthest nuclear margin; chromatin becomes coarse and clumped; specific granules predominate while primary granules are rare; and the cytoplasm becomes amphophilic like that of a mature granulocyte. This cell type is integrin alpha-M-positive, CD13-negative, CD15-positive, CD16-positive, CD33-positive, CD24-positive, fMLP receptor-negative and has expression of C/EBP-a, C/EBP-e, PU.1 transcription factor, lactotransferrin, myeloperoxidase and neutrophil gelatinase associated lipocalin. [ [database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md) = GOC:add, [database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md) = GOC:dsd, [database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md) = GOC:tfm, [database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md) = ISBN:0721601464, [database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md) = PMID:10618520, [database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md) = PMID:12560239, [database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md) = PMID:15514007, [database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md) = http://www.cap.org ]
 * *Comment* = These cells are also CD35-negative, CD49d-positive, and fMLP receptor-negative. They are found in the Band 2 fraction.

## Synonyms

 * juvenile neutrophil

## Cross-references

 * FMA:84197

## Subsets


## Superclasses

 * [immature neutrophil](../../CL/76/CL_0000776.md)
 * [metamyelocyte](../../CL/92/CL_0002192.md)
 * [develops_from](../../RO/02/RO_0002202.md) some [neutrophilic myelocyte](../../CL/80/CL_0000580.md)

## Equivalencies


## Other Logical Axioms


## Other Annotations

 * *[definition](../../IAO/15/IAO_0000115.md)* = A neutrophil precursor in the granulocytic series, being a cell intermediate in development between a myelocyte and the band form neutrophil. The protein synthesis seen in earlier stages decreases or stops; the nucleus becomes indented where the indentation is smaller than half the distance to the farthest nuclear margin; chromatin becomes coarse and clumped; specific granules predominate while primary granules are rare; and the cytoplasm becomes amphophilic like that of a mature granulocyte. This cell type is integrin alpha-M-positive, CD13-negative, CD15-positive, CD16-positive, CD33-positive, CD24-positive, fMLP receptor-negative and has expression of C/EBP-a, C/EBP-e, PU.1 transcription factor, lactotransferrin, myeloperoxidase and neutrophil gelatinase associated lipocalin.
 * *[database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md)* = FMA:84197
 * *[has_exact_synonym](../../ym/oboInOwl#hasExactSynonym.md)* = juvenile neutrophil
 * *[rdf-schema#comment](../../nt/rdf-schema#comment.md)* = These cells are also CD35-negative, CD49d-positive, and fMLP receptor-negative. They are found in the Band 2 fraction.
 * *[rdf-schema#label](../../el/rdf-schema#label.md)* = neutrophilic metamyelocyte

## Usage

 * -
 * [band form neutrophil](../../CL/60/CL_0000560.md) SubClassOf [develops_from](../../RO/02/RO_0002202.md) some [neutrophilic metamyelocyte](../../CL/82/CL_0000582.md)
 * [neutrophilic metamyelocyte](../../CL/82/CL_0000582.md) SubClassOf [develops_from](../../RO/02/RO_0002202.md) some [neutrophilic myelocyte](../../CL/80/CL_0000580.md)
 * [neutrophilic metamyelocyte](../../CL/82/CL_0000582.md) SubClassOf [immature neutrophil](../../CL/76/CL_0000776.md)
 * [neutrophilic metamyelocyte](../../CL/82/CL_0000582.md) SubClassOf [metamyelocyte](../../CL/92/CL_0002192.md)

## External Comments

