
## Class : parotoid gland

 * *IRI* = http://purl.obolibrary.org/obo/UBERON_0013219
 * *Label* = parotoid gland
 * *Definition* = The parotoid gland (alternatively, paratoid gland) is an external skin gland on the back, neck, and shoulder of toads and some frogs and salamanders. It secretes a milky alkaloid substance to deter predators. The substance produced acts as a neurotoxin. Parotoid glands are sometimes said to be wart-like in appearance, though warts are abnormal growths caused by viral infections while parotoid glands are normal, healthy parts of the animals that bear them. The vague similarity in appearance, however, is the reason behind the mistaken belief that touching a toad causes warts. [ [database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md) = http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Parotoid_gland ]

## Synonyms

 * paratoid gland

## Cross-references

 * http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Parotoid_gland

## Subsets


## Superclasses

 * [gland](../../UBERON/30/UBERON_0002530.md)
 * [only in taxon](../../RO/60/RO_0002160.md) some [Amphibia](../../NCBITaxon/92/NCBITaxon_8292.md)

## Equivalencies


## Other Logical Axioms


## Other Annotations

 * *[definition](../../IAO/15/IAO_0000115.md)* = The parotoid gland (alternatively, paratoid gland) is an external skin gland on the back, neck, and shoulder of toads and some frogs and salamanders. It secretes a milky alkaloid substance to deter predators. The substance produced acts as a neurotoxin. Parotoid glands are sometimes said to be wart-like in appearance, though warts are abnormal growths caused by viral infections while parotoid glands are normal, healthy parts of the animals that bear them. The vague similarity in appearance, however, is the reason behind the mistaken belief that touching a toad causes warts.
 * *[database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md)* = http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Parotoid_gland
 * *[has_related_synonym](../../ym/oboInOwl#hasRelatedSynonym.md)* = paratoid gland
 * *[rdf-schema#label](../../el/rdf-schema#label.md)* = parotoid gland

## Usage

 * -
 * [parotoid gland](../../UBERON/19/UBERON_0013219.md) SubClassOf [gland](../../UBERON/30/UBERON_0002530.md)
 * [parotoid gland](../../UBERON/19/UBERON_0013219.md) SubClassOf [only in taxon](../../RO/60/RO_0002160.md) some [Amphibia](../../NCBITaxon/92/NCBITaxon_8292.md)

## External Comments

