
## Class : haemal node

 * *IRI* = http://purl.obolibrary.org/obo/UBERON_0013119
 * *Label* = haemal node
 * *Definition* = A lymphoid organ found in various mammals and some birds. [ [database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md) = http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Haemal_nodes ]
 * *Comment* = Hemal nodes are characterized by the presence of large numbers of erythrocytes. Lymph nodes (see below) and hemal nodes share some similarities of structure, but really are fundamentally different organs both qualitatively and quantitatively. Both lymph and hemal nodes contain diffuse lymphatic tissue, and in most cases have nodular tissue in the form of germinal centers, as well. Like the lymph node, the hemal node has a cortex and a medulla, and germinal centers are frequently seen. There's a distinct capsule, and hemal nodes are served at the hilus by an afferent arteriole. [http://www.vetmed.vt.edu/education/curriculum/vm8054/labs/lab13/lab13.htm]

## Synonyms

 * hemal node

## Cross-references

 * http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Haemal_nodes

## Subsets


## Superclasses

 * [viscus](../../UBERON/75/UBERON_0002075.md)
 * [hemopoietic organ](../../UBERON/77/UBERON_0004177.md)
 * [immune organ](../../UBERON/57/UBERON_0005057.md)
 * [part_of](../../BFO/50/BFO_0000050.md) some [immune system](../../UBERON/05/UBERON_0002405.md)
 * [located_in](../../RO/25/RO_0001025.md) some [coelemic cavity lumen](../../UBERON/23/UBERON_0002323.md)
 * [develops_from](../../RO/02/RO_0002202.md) some [artery](../../UBERON/37/UBERON_0001637.md)

## Equivalencies


## Other Logical Axioms


## Other Annotations

 * *[definition](../../IAO/15/IAO_0000115.md)* = A lymphoid organ found in various mammals and some birds.
 * *[database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md)* = http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Haemal_nodes
 * *[has_exact_synonym](../../ym/oboInOwl#hasExactSynonym.md)* = hemal node
 * *[rdf-schema#comment](../../nt/rdf-schema#comment.md)* = Hemal nodes are characterized by the presence of large numbers of erythrocytes. Lymph nodes (see below) and hemal nodes share some similarities of structure, but really are fundamentally different organs both qualitatively and quantitatively. Both lymph and hemal nodes contain diffuse lymphatic tissue, and in most cases have nodular tissue in the form of germinal centers, as well. Like the lymph node, the hemal node has a cortex and a medulla, and germinal centers are frequently seen. There's a distinct capsule, and hemal nodes are served at the hilus by an afferent arteriole. [http://www.vetmed.vt.edu/education/curriculum/vm8054/labs/lab13/lab13.htm]
 * *[rdf-schema#label](../../el/rdf-schema#label.md)* = haemal node

## Usage

 * -
 * [haemal node](../../UBERON/19/UBERON_0013119.md) SubClassOf [develops_from](../../RO/02/RO_0002202.md) some [artery](../../UBERON/37/UBERON_0001637.md)
 * [haemal node](../../UBERON/19/UBERON_0013119.md) SubClassOf [hemopoietic organ](../../UBERON/77/UBERON_0004177.md)
 * [haemal node](../../UBERON/19/UBERON_0013119.md) SubClassOf [immune organ](../../UBERON/57/UBERON_0005057.md)
 * [haemal node](../../UBERON/19/UBERON_0013119.md) SubClassOf [located_in](../../RO/25/RO_0001025.md) some [coelemic cavity lumen](../../UBERON/23/UBERON_0002323.md)
 * [haemal node](../../UBERON/19/UBERON_0013119.md) SubClassOf [part_of](../../BFO/50/BFO_0000050.md) some [immune system](../../UBERON/05/UBERON_0002405.md)
 * [haemal node](../../UBERON/19/UBERON_0013119.md) SubClassOf [viscus](../../UBERON/75/UBERON_0002075.md)

## External Comments

