
## Class : thyroid cartilage

 * *IRI* = http://purl.obolibrary.org/obo/UBERON_0001738
 * *Label* = thyroid cartilage
 * *Definition* = The thyroid cartilage is the largest of the nine cartilages that make up the laryngeal skeleton, the cartilage structure in and around the trachea that contains the larynx. It is composed of two plate-like laminae that fuse on the anterior side of the cartilage to form a peak, called the laryngeal prominence. This prominence is often referred to as the 'pomus Adamus' or 'Adam's apple'. The laryngeal prominence is more prominent in adult male than female because of the difference in the size of the angle: 90¡ in male and 120¡ in female. The lip of the thyroid cartilage just superior to the laryngeal prominence is called the superior thyroid notch, while the notch inferior to the thyroid angle is called the inferior thyroid notch. Its posterior border is elongated both inferiorly and superiorly to form the superior horn of thyroid cartilage and inferior horn of thyroid cartilage. [WP,unvetted]. [ [database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md) = Wikipedia:Thyroid_cartilage ]

## Synonyms

 * cartilago thyroidea [ [database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md) = Wikipedia:Thyroid_cartilage ]
 * cartilago thyroidea [ [database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md) = Wikipedia:Thyroid_cartilage, [has_synonym_type](../../pe/oboInOwl#hasSynonymType.md) = http://purl.obolibrary.org/obo/uberon/core#LATIN ]
 * laryngeal prominence [ [database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md) = Wikipedia:Thyroid_cartilage ]
 * pomus [ [database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md) = Wikipedia:Thyroid_cartilage ]
 * pomus adamus [ [database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md) = Wikipedia:Thyroid_cartilage ]

## Cross-references

 * BTO:0003655
 * EHDAA2:0002030
 * EHDAA:9395
 * EMAPA:18698
 * FMA:55099
 * GAID:112
 * MA:0001764
 * MESH:A02.165.507.870
 * SCTID:263483000
 * UMLS:C0040126 [ [oboInOwl#source](../../ce/oboInOwl#source.md) = ncithesaurus:Thyroid_Cartilage ]
 * VHOG:0001365
 * Wikipedia:Thyroid_cartilage
 * http://upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/8/8a/Larynx_external_en.svg
 * http://upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/8/8a/Larynx_external_en.svg/200px-Larynx_external_en.svg.png
 * ncithesaurus:Thyroid_Cartilage

## Subsets

 * http://purl.obolibrary.org/obo/uberon/core#uberon_slim

## Superclasses

 * [laryngeal cartilage](../../UBERON/39/UBERON_0001739.md)
 * [part_of](../../BFO/50/BFO_0000050.md) some [laryngeal apparatus](../../UBERON/12/UBERON_0010212.md)
 * [develops from](../../RO/02/RO_0002202.md) some [thyroid pre-cartilage condensation](../../UBERON/19/UBERON_0010219.md)

## Equivalencies


## Other Logical Axioms


## Other Annotations

 * *[external_definition](../../UBPROP/01/UBPROP_0000001.md)* = The largest cartilage of the larynx, having two broad processes that join anteriorly to form the Adam's apple. [TFD][VHOG]
 * *[homology_notes](../../UBPROP/03/UBPROP_0000003.md)* = [In anura] a dorsal pair of arytenoid cartilages (...), which support vocal cords, and a ventral pair (often fused) of cricoid cartilage (...). These cartilages are regarded as derivatives of posterior visceral arches of ancestors. Together they constitute the larynx, a structure characteristic of tetrapods. (...) [In mammals] Paired arytenoid cartilages help support and control the vocal cords. The cricoid cartilage is single. Two additional cartilages are present that are lacking in other vertebrates: a large ventral thyroid cartilage (...) and a cartilage in the epiglottis.[well established][VHOG]
 * *[homologous_in](../../core#homologous/in/core#homologous_in.md)* = http://purl.obolibrary.org/obo/NCBITaxon_7742

## Usage


## External Comments

