
## Class : Gr1-low non-classical monocyte

 * *IRI* = http://purl.obolibrary.org/obo/CL_0002058
 * *Label* = Gr1-low non-classical monocyte
 * *Definition* = A resident monocyte that is Gr-1 low, CD43-positive, and CX3CR1-positive. [ [database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md) = GOC:tfm, [database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md) = PMID:8890901 ]
 * *Comment* = Markers are associated with mice. The Gr epitope is used to describe this cell type is found on both Ly6c and Ly6g. However, its the Ly6c that is considered the specific marker, and thus used in the cross-product. Also, this cell-type is sometimes described as being Gr1-negative.

## Synonyms


## Cross-references


## Subsets


## Superclasses

 * [non-classical monocyte](../../CL/75/CL_0000875.md)
 * [Gr1-positive, CD43-positive monocyte](../../CL/98/CL_0002398.md)
 * [develops_from](../../RO/02/RO_0002202.md) some [Gr1-positive, CD43-positive monocyte](../../CL/98/CL_0002398.md)

## Equivalencies


## Other Logical Axioms


## Other Annotations

 * *[definition](../../IAO/15/IAO_0000115.md)* = A resident monocyte that is Gr-1 low, CD43-positive, and CX3CR1-positive.
 * *[oboInOwl#created_by](../../oboInOwl#created/by/oboInOwl#created_by.md)* = tmeehan
 * *[oboInOwl#creation_date](../../oboInOwl#creation/te/oboInOwl#creation_date.md)* = 2010-06-05T08:25:44Z
 * *[rdf-schema#comment](../../nt/rdf-schema#comment.md)* = Markers are associated with mice. The Gr epitope is used to describe this cell type is found on both Ly6c and Ly6g. However, its the Ly6c that is considered the specific marker, and thus used in the cross-product. Also, this cell-type is sometimes described as being Gr1-negative.
 * *[rdf-schema#label](../../el/rdf-schema#label.md)* = Gr1-low non-classical monocyte

## Usage

 * -
 * [Gr1-low non-classical monocyte](../../CL/58/CL_0002058.md) SubClassOf [Gr1-positive, CD43-positive monocyte](../../CL/98/CL_0002398.md)
 * [Gr1-low non-classical monocyte](../../CL/58/CL_0002058.md) SubClassOf [develops_from](../../RO/02/RO_0002202.md) some [Gr1-positive, CD43-positive monocyte](../../CL/98/CL_0002398.md)
 * [Gr1-low non-classical monocyte](../../CL/58/CL_0002058.md) SubClassOf [non-classical monocyte](../../CL/75/CL_0000875.md)
 * [MHC-II-high non-classical monocyte](../../CL/73/CL_0002473.md) SubClassOf [Gr1-low non-classical monocyte](../../CL/58/CL_0002058.md)
 * [MHC-II-low non-classical monocyte](../../CL/72/CL_0002472.md) SubClassOf [Gr1-low non-classical monocyte](../../CL/58/CL_0002058.md)
 * [MHC-II-negative non-classical monocyte](../../CL/71/CL_0002471.md) SubClassOf [Gr1-low non-classical monocyte](../../CL/58/CL_0002058.md)

## External Comments

