
## Class : band form neutrophil

 * *IRI* = http://purl.obolibrary.org/obo/CL_0000560
 * *Label* = band form neutrophil
 * *Definition* = A late neutrophilic metamyelocyte in which the nucleus is indented to more than half the distance to the farthest nuclear margin but in no area being condensed to a single filament. The nucleus is in the form of a curved or coiled band, not having acquired the typical multilobar shape of the mature neutrophil. These cells are fMLP receptor-positive, CD11b-positive, CD35-negative, and CD49d-negative. [ [database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md) = GOC:add, [database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md) = GOC:dsd, [database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md) = GOC:tfm, [database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md) = ISBN:0721601464, [database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md) = PMID:10618520, [database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md) = PMID:12560239, [database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md) = PMID:15514007, [database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md) = http://www.cap.org ]
 * *Comment* = Found in the Band 1 fraction.

## Synonyms

 * rod neutrophil
 * band
 * band cell
 * band form
 * stab cell

## Cross-references


## Subsets


## Superclasses

 * [mature neutrophil](../../CL/96/CL_0000096.md)
 * [develops_from](../../RO/02/RO_0002202.md) some [neutrophilic metamyelocyte](../../CL/82/CL_0000582.md)

## Equivalencies


## Other Logical Axioms


## Other Annotations

 * *[definition](../../IAO/15/IAO_0000115.md)* = A late neutrophilic metamyelocyte in which the nucleus is indented to more than half the distance to the farthest nuclear margin but in no area being condensed to a single filament. The nucleus is in the form of a curved or coiled band, not having acquired the typical multilobar shape of the mature neutrophil. These cells are fMLP receptor-positive, CD11b-positive, CD35-negative, and CD49d-negative.
 * *[has_broad_synonym](../../ym/oboInOwl#hasBroadSynonym.md)* = band
 * *[has_broad_synonym](../../ym/oboInOwl#hasBroadSynonym.md)* = band cell
 * *[has_broad_synonym](../../ym/oboInOwl#hasBroadSynonym.md)* = band form
 * *[has_broad_synonym](../../ym/oboInOwl#hasBroadSynonym.md)* = stab cell
 * *[has_exact_synonym](../../ym/oboInOwl#hasExactSynonym.md)* = rod neutrophil
 * *[rdf-schema#comment](../../nt/rdf-schema#comment.md)* = Found in the Band 1 fraction.
 * *[rdf-schema#label](../../el/rdf-schema#label.md)* = band form neutrophil

## Usage

 * -
 * [band form neutrophil](../../CL/60/CL_0000560.md) SubClassOf [develops_from](../../RO/02/RO_0002202.md) some [neutrophilic metamyelocyte](../../CL/82/CL_0000582.md)
 * [band form neutrophil](../../CL/60/CL_0000560.md) SubClassOf [mature neutrophil](../../CL/96/CL_0000096.md)
 * [mature neutrophil](../../CL/96/CL_0000096.md) SubClassOf [develops_from](../../RO/02/RO_0002202.md) some [band form neutrophil](../../CL/60/CL_0000560.md)

## External Comments

