
## Class : posterior spinocerebellar tract

 * *IRI* = http://purl.obolibrary.org/obo/UBERON_0002753
 * *Label* = posterior spinocerebellar tract
 * *Definition* = It ascends the dorsal part of the lateral funiculus and enters the cerebellum via the restiform body. Within the cerebellum, its axons terminate in the ipsilateral hindlimb area of the anterior lobe and in the pyramis and the paramedian lobule predominantly ipsilaterally. Rostrally, it extends to lobules I and II. Afferents from the upper trunk, forelimbs, and the neck to the cerebellum. [ [database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md) = NIF_GrossAnatomy:birnlex_1585 ]

## Synonyms

 * dorsal spinocerebellar tract [ [database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md) = FMA:72641 ]
 * flechsig's tract [ [database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md) = FMA:72641 ]
 * dorsal spinocerebellar tract of the medulla [ [database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md) = NeuroNames:807 ]

## Cross-references

 * BAMS:dsc
 * BAMS:psc
 * BAMS:sctd
 * BM:DSCT
 * FMA:72641
 * NIF_GrossAnatomy:birnlex_1585
 * NeuroNames:807 [ [oboInOwl#source](../../ce/oboInOwl#source.md) = NIF_GrossAnatomy:birnlex_1585 ]
 * SCTID:369284002
 * UMLS:C0175560 [ [oboInOwl#source](../../ce/oboInOwl#source.md) = NIF_GrossAnatomy:birnlex_1585 ]
 * Wikipedia:Dorsal_spinocerebellar_tract
 * http://upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/b/b2/Spinal_cord_tracts_-_English.svg
 * http://upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/f/fe/Medulla_spinalis_-_tracts_-_English.svg/200px-Medulla_spinalis_-_tracts_-_English.svg.png

## Subsets

 * http://purl.obolibrary.org/obo/uberon/core#uberon_slim

## Superclasses

 * [axon tract](../../UBERON/18/UBERON_0001018.md)
 * [part_of](../../BFO/50/BFO_0000050.md) some [spinocerebellar tract](../../UBERON/13/UBERON_0005413.md)
 * [capable of part of](../../RO/16/RO_0002216.md) some [proprioception](../../GO/30/GO_0019230.md)

## Equivalencies


## Other Logical Axioms


## Other Annotations

 * *[external_definition](../../UBPROP/01/UBPROP_0000001.md)* = The dorsal spinocerebellar tract (posterior spinocerebellar tract, Flechsig's fasciculus, Flechsig's tract) conveys proprioceptive information from the body to the cerebellum. It is part of the somatosensory system and runs in parallel with the ventral spinocerebellar tract. Proprioceptive information is taken to the via central processes of dorsal root ganglia (first order neurons). These central processes travel through the dorsal horn where they synapse with second order neurons of Clarke's nucleus. Axon fibers from Clarke's Nucleus convey this proprioceptive information in the spinal cord in the peripheral region of the posteriolateral funiculus ipsilaterally until it reaches the cerebellum, where unconscious proprioceptive information is processed. This tract involves two neurons and ends up on the same side of the body. [WP,unvetted][Wikipedia:Dorsal_spinocerebellar_tract].

## Usage


## External Comments

