
## Class : neck of rib

 * *IRI* = http://purl.obolibrary.org/obo/UBERON_0003253
 * *Label* = neck of rib
 * *Definition* = The neck of the rib is the flattened portion which extends lateralward from the head; it is about 2.5 cm. long, and is placed in front of the transverse process of the lower of the two vertebrC& with which the head articulates. Its anterior surface is flat and smooth, its posterior rough for the attachment of the ligament of the neck, and perforated by numerous foramina. Of its two borders the superior presents a rough crest (crista colli costE) for the attachment of the anterior costotransverse ligament; its inferior border is rounded. On the posterior surface at the junction of the neck and body, and nearer the lower than the upper border, is an eminencebthe tubercle; it consists of an articular and a non-articular portion. The articular portion, the lower and more medial of the two, presents a small, oval surface for articulation with the end of the transverse process of the lower of the two vertebrC& to which the head is connected. The non-articular portion is a rough elevation, and affords attachment to the ligament of the tubercle. The tubercle is much more prominent in the upper than in the lower ribs. [ [database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md) = http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Neck_of_rib ]

## Synonyms

 * collum costae [ [database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md) = http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Neck_of_rib, [has_synonym_type](../../pe/oboInOwl#hasSynonymType.md) = http://purl.obolibrary.org/obo/uberon/core#LATIN ]
 * rib neck [ [database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md) = FMA:7576 ]
 * collum costae [ [database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md) = http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Neck_of_rib, [has_synonym_type](../../pe/oboInOwl#hasSynonymType.md) = http://purl.obolibrary.org/obo/uberon/core#LATIN ]

## Cross-references

 * FMA:7576
 * http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Neck_of_rib
 * http://www.snomedbrowser.com/Codes/Details/263359009

## Subsets


## Superclasses

 * [mesoderm-derived structure](../../UBERON/20/UBERON_0004120.md)
 * [zone of long bone](../../UBERON/55/UBERON_0005055.md)
 * [neck of bone element](../../UBERON/64/UBERON_0018664.md)
 * [part_of](../../BFO/50/BFO_0000050.md) some [rib](../../UBERON/28/UBERON_0002228.md)
 * [part_of](../../BFO/50/BFO_0000050.md) some [proximal segment of rib](../../UBERON/88/UBERON_0010388.md)

## Equivalencies

 * [neck of organ](../../UBERON/60/UBERON_0001560.md) and [part_of](../../BFO/50/BFO_0000050.md) some [rib](../../UBERON/28/UBERON_0002228.md)

## Other Logical Axioms


## Other Annotations

 * *[definition](../../IAO/15/IAO_0000115.md)* = The neck of the rib is the flattened portion which extends lateralward from the head; it is about 2.5 cm. long, and is placed in front of the transverse process of the lower of the two vertebrC& with which the head articulates. Its anterior surface is flat and smooth, its posterior rough for the attachment of the ligament of the neck, and perforated by numerous foramina. Of its two borders the superior presents a rough crest (crista colli costE) for the attachment of the anterior costotransverse ligament; its inferior border is rounded. On the posterior surface at the junction of the neck and body, and nearer the lower than the upper border, is an eminencebthe tubercle; it consists of an articular and a non-articular portion. The articular portion, the lower and more medial of the two, presents a small, oval surface for articulation with the end of the transverse process of the lower of the two vertebrC& to which the head is connected. The non-articular portion is a rough elevation, and affords attachment to the ligament of the tubercle. The tubercle is much more prominent in the upper than in the lower ribs.
 * *[database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md)* = FMA:7576
 * *[database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md)* = http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Neck_of_rib
 * *[database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md)* = http://www.snomedbrowser.com/Codes/Details/263359009
 * *[has_exact_synonym](../../ym/oboInOwl#hasExactSynonym.md)* = collum costae
 * *[has_exact_synonym](../../ym/oboInOwl#hasExactSynonym.md)* = rib neck
 * *[has_related_synonym](../../ym/oboInOwl#hasRelatedSynonym.md)* = collum costae
 * *[rdf-schema#label](../../el/rdf-schema#label.md)* = neck of rib
 * *[depicted_by](../../depicted/by/depicted_by.md)* = http://upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/5/5c/Gray122.png

## Usage

 * -
 * [neck of rib](../../UBERON/53/UBERON_0003253.md) == [neck of organ](../../UBERON/60/UBERON_0001560.md) and [part_of](../../BFO/50/BFO_0000050.md) some [rib](../../UBERON/28/UBERON_0002228.md)
 * [neck of rib](../../UBERON/53/UBERON_0003253.md) SubClassOf [mesoderm-derived structure](../../UBERON/20/UBERON_0004120.md)
 * [neck of rib](../../UBERON/53/UBERON_0003253.md) SubClassOf [neck of bone element](../../UBERON/64/UBERON_0018664.md)
 * [neck of rib](../../UBERON/53/UBERON_0003253.md) SubClassOf [part_of](../../BFO/50/BFO_0000050.md) some [proximal segment of rib](../../UBERON/88/UBERON_0010388.md)
 * [neck of rib](../../UBERON/53/UBERON_0003253.md) SubClassOf [part_of](../../BFO/50/BFO_0000050.md) some [rib](../../UBERON/28/UBERON_0002228.md)
 * [neck of rib](../../UBERON/53/UBERON_0003253.md) SubClassOf [zone of long bone](../../UBERON/55/UBERON_0005055.md)

## External Comments

