
## Class : heart

 * *IRI* = http://purl.obolibrary.org/obo/UBERON_0000948
 * *Label* = heart
 * *Definition* = a myogenic muscular organ found in the cardiovascular system. It is responsible for pumping blood throughout the blood vessels by repeated, rhythmic contractions. The vertebrate heart is composed of cardiac muscle, which is an involuntary striated muscle tissue found only in this organ, and connective tissue. Primitive fish have a four-chambered heart; however, the chambers are arranged sequentially so that this primitive heart is quite unlike the four-chambered hearts of mammals and birds. The first chamber is the sinus venosus, which collects de-oxygenated blood, from the body, through the hepatic and cardinal veins. From here, blood flows into the atrium and then to the powerful muscular ventricle where the main pumping action takes place. The fourth and final chamber is the conus arteriosus which contains several valves and sends blood to the ventral aorta. The ventral aorta delivers blood to the gills where it is oxygenated and flows, through the dorsal aorta, into the rest of the body. (In tetrapods, the ventral aorta has divided in two; one half forms the ascending aorta, while the other forms the pulmonary artery. In the adult fish, the four chambers are not arranged in a straight row but, instead, form an S-shape with the latter two chambers lying above the former two. This relatively simpler pattern is found in cartilaginous fish and in the more primitive ray-finned fish. In teleosts, the conus arteriosus is very small and can more accurately be described as part of the aorta rather than of the heart proper. The conus arteriosus is not present in any amniotes which presumably having been absorbed into the ventricles over the course of evolution. Similarly, while the sinus venosus is present as a vestigial structure in some reptiles and birds, it is otherwise absorbed into the right atrium and is no longer distinguishable[WP]. [[database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md) =  + Wikipedia:Heart]
 * *Comment* = note that we use the term 'circulatory organ' for the generic class. Taxon notes:" the ascidian tube-like heart lacks chambers....The ascidian heart is formed after metamorphosis as a simple tube-like structure with a single-layered myoepi- thelium that is continuous with a single-layered pericar- dial wall. It lacks chambers and endocardium.... The innovation of the chambered heart was a key event in vertebrate evolution, because the chambered heart generates one-way blood flow with high pressure, a critical requirement for the efficient blood supply of large-body vertebrates... all extant vertebrates have hearts with two or more chambers (Moorman and Christoffels 2003)" doi:10.1101/gad.1485706

## Synonyms

 * chambered heart [[database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md) =  + https://orcid.org/0000-0002-6601-2165]
 * vertebrate heart
 * branchial heart [[has_synonym_type](../../pe/oboInOwl#hasSynonymType.md) =  + http://purl.obolibrary.org/obo/uberon/core#SENSU]
 * Herz [[database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md) =  + BTO:0000562]

## Cross-references

 * AAO:0010210
 * BILA:0000020
 * BSA:0000088
 * BTO:0000562
 * CALOHA:TS-0445
 * EFO:0000815
 * EHDAA2:0000738
 * EHDAA:420
 * EMAPA:16105
 * EV:0100018
 * FMA:7088
 * GAID:174
 * MA:0000072
 * MAT:0000036
 * MESH:A07.541
 * MIAA:0000036
 * OpenCyc:Mx4rvVjvDpwpEbGdrcN5Y29ycA
 * SCTID:302509004
 * TAO:0000114
 * UMLS:C0018787 [[oboInOwl#source](../../ce/oboInOwl#source.md) =  + ncithesaurus:Heart]
 * VHOG:0000276
 * Wikipedia:Heart
 * XAO:0000064
 * ZFA:0000114
 * galen:Heart
 * ncithesaurus:Heart

## Subsets

 * http://purl.obolibrary.org/obo/uberon/core#efo_slim
 * http://purl.obolibrary.org/obo/uberon/core#major_organ
 * http://purl.obolibrary.org/obo/uberon/core#organ_slim
 * http://purl.obolibrary.org/obo/uberon/core#uberon_slim
 * http://purl.obolibrary.org/obo/uberon/core#vertebrate_core

## Superclasses

 * [mesoderm-derived structure](../../UBERON/20/UBERON_0004120.md)
 * [circulatory organ](../../UBERON/00/UBERON_0007100.md)
 * [structure with developmental contribution from neural crest](../../UBERON/14/UBERON_0010314.md)
 * [part_of](../../BFO/50/BFO_0000050.md) some [cardiovascular system](../../UBERON/35/UBERON_0004535.md)
 * [has_part](../../BFO/51/BFO_0000051.md) some [cardiac chamber](../../UBERON/51/UBERON_0004151.md)
 * [only_in_taxon](../../RO/60/RO_0002160.md) some [Vertebrata <Metazoa>](../../NCBITaxon/42/NCBITaxon_7742.md)
 * [develops from](../../RO/02/RO_0002202.md) some [heart tube](../../UBERON/41/UBERON_0004141.md)
 * [has developmental contribution from](../../RO/54/RO_0002254.md) some [neural crest](../../UBERON/42/UBERON_0002342.md)

## Equivalencies

 * ObjectIntersectionOf(<http://purl.obolibrary.org/obo/UBERON_0007100> ObjectSomeValuesFrom(<http://purl.obolibrary.org/obo/BFO_0000051> <http://purl.obolibrary.org/obo/UBERON_0004151>))

## Other Logical Axioms


## Other Annotations

 * *[external_definition](../../UBPROP/01/UBPROP_0000001.md)* = Blood pumping organ composed of four chambers: sinus venosus, atrium, cardiac ventricle and bulbus arteriosus.[TAO]
 * *[external_definition](../../UBPROP/01/UBPROP_0000001.md)* = Part of the circulatory system responsible for pumping blood; composed of three chambers--two atria and one ventricle.[AAO]
 * *[axiom_lost_from_external_ontology](../../UBPROP/02/UBPROP_0000002.md)* = relationship type change: differentiates_from lateral plate mesoderm (AAO:0010574) CHANGED TO: develops_from lateral plate mesoderm (UBERON:0003081)[AAO]
 * *[homology_notes](../../UBPROP/03/UBPROP_0000003.md)* = As noted, the hearts of birds and mammals have four chambers that arises from the two chambers (atrium and ventricle) of the fish heart.[well established][VHOG]
 * *[has_relational_adjective](../../UBPROP/07/UBPROP_0000007.md)* = cardiac
 * *[homologous_in](../../core#homologous/in/core#homologous_in.md)* = http://purl.obolibrary.org/obo/NCBITaxon_7742
 * *[has_obo_namespace](../../ce/oboInOwl#hasOBONamespace.md)* = uberon
 * *[oboInOwl#id](../../id/oboInOwl#id.md)* = UBERON:0000948

## External Comments

