
## Class : cleidocephalicus muscle

 * *IRI* = http://purl.obolibrary.org/obo/UBERON_0011364
 * *Label* = cleidocephalicus muscle
 * *Definition* = The cleidomastoideus is a thick, strap-like muscle that together with the cleidocervicalis forms the proximal part of the brachiocephalicus. It lies beneath the cleidocervicalis. Its origin is the clavicular tendon with its insertion being at the mastoid process of the temporal bone. It is distinctly narrow and is united with the cleidocervicalis and cleidobrachialis by the clavicular tendon. Together with the other two components of the brachiocephalicus muscle, its primary function is to advance the free limb, however, it can also act as an shoulder extensor. Acting bilaterally, it fixes and depresses the neck, while by its unilateral action, it allows the head and neck to be drawn to the side. Its blood supply is the inferior cervical, carotid and vertebral arteries and its nerve supply is the spinal accessory, cervical and axillary nerves. [ [database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md) = MURDOCH:379 ]
 * *Comment* = alt def: "Combination of cleidomastoid and cleidocervical muscles"

## Synonyms

 * cleidocephalic [ [database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md) = MA:0002275 ]
 * cleidocephalic muscle
 * cleidocephalicus
 * cleidomastoid
 * cleidomastoid muscle
 * cleidomastoideus
 * pars mastoideus

## Cross-references

 * MA:0002275
 * UMLS:C1707412 [ [oboInOwl#source](../../ce/oboInOwl#source.md) = ncithesaurus:Cleidocephalic ]
 * http://linkedlifedata.com/resource/umls/id/C1707412
 * http://ncicb.nci.nih.gov/xml/owl/EVS/Cleidocephalic

## Subsets


## Superclasses

 * [muscle of shoulder](../../UBERON/82/UBERON_0001482.md)
 * [part_of](../../BFO/50/BFO_0000050.md) some [brachiocephalic muscle](../../UBERON/68/UBERON_0011368.md)
 * [attached to](../../RO/71/RO_0002371.md) some [clavicle bone](../../UBERON/05/UBERON_0001105.md)
 * [attached to](../../RO/71/RO_0002371.md) some [mastoid process of temporal bone](../../UBERON/20/UBERON_0011220.md)
 * [has muscle origin](../../RO/72/RO_0002372.md) some [clavicle bone](../../UBERON/05/UBERON_0001105.md)
 * [has_muscle_insertion](../../RO/73/RO_0002373.md) some [mastoid process of temporal bone](../../UBERON/20/UBERON_0011220.md)

## Equivalencies

 * [attached to](../../RO/71/RO_0002371.md) some [clavicle bone](../../UBERON/05/UBERON_0001105.md) and [attached to](../../RO/71/RO_0002371.md) some [mastoid process of temporal bone](../../UBERON/20/UBERON_0011220.md) and [skeletal muscle organ](../../UBERON/92/UBERON_0014892.md)

## Other Logical Axioms


## Other Annotations

 * *[definition](../../IAO/15/IAO_0000115.md)* = The cleidomastoideus is a thick, strap-like muscle that together with the cleidocervicalis forms the proximal part of the brachiocephalicus. It lies beneath the cleidocervicalis. Its origin is the clavicular tendon with its insertion being at the mastoid process of the temporal bone. It is distinctly narrow and is united with the cleidocervicalis and cleidobrachialis by the clavicular tendon. Together with the other two components of the brachiocephalicus muscle, its primary function is to advance the free limb, however, it can also act as an shoulder extensor. Acting bilaterally, it fixes and depresses the neck, while by its unilateral action, it allows the head and neck to be drawn to the side. Its blood supply is the inferior cervical, carotid and vertebral arteries and its nerve supply is the spinal accessory, cervical and axillary nerves.
 * *[database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md)* = MA:0002275
 * *[database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md)* = UMLS:C1707412
 * *[database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md)* = http://linkedlifedata.com/resource/umls/id/C1707412
 * *[database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md)* = http://ncicb.nci.nih.gov/xml/owl/EVS/Cleidocephalic
 * *[has_exact_synonym](../../ym/oboInOwl#hasExactSynonym.md)* = cleidocephalic
 * *[has_exact_synonym](../../ym/oboInOwl#hasExactSynonym.md)* = cleidocephalic muscle
 * *[has_exact_synonym](../../ym/oboInOwl#hasExactSynonym.md)* = cleidocephalicus
 * *[has_related_synonym](../../ym/oboInOwl#hasRelatedSynonym.md)* = cleidomastoid
 * *[has_related_synonym](../../ym/oboInOwl#hasRelatedSynonym.md)* = cleidomastoid muscle
 * *[has_related_synonym](../../ym/oboInOwl#hasRelatedSynonym.md)* = cleidomastoideus
 * *[has_related_synonym](../../ym/oboInOwl#hasRelatedSynonym.md)* = pars mastoideus
 * *[rdf-schema#comment](../../nt/rdf-schema#comment.md)* = alt def: "Combination of cleidomastoid and cleidocervical muscles"
 * *[rdf-schema#label](../../el/rdf-schema#label.md)* = cleidocephalicus muscle

## Usage

 * -
 * [cleidobrachialis muscle](../../UBERON/66/UBERON_0011366.md) == [attached to](../../RO/71/RO_0002371.md) some [clavicle bone](../../UBERON/05/UBERON_0001105.md) and [attached to](../../RO/71/RO_0002371.md) some [humerus](../../UBERON/76/UBERON_0000976.md) and [part_of](../../BFO/50/BFO_0000050.md) some [cleidocephalicus muscle](../../UBERON/64/UBERON_0011364.md) and [skeletal muscle organ](../../UBERON/92/UBERON_0014892.md)
 * [cleidobrachialis muscle](../../UBERON/66/UBERON_0011366.md) SubClassOf [part_of](../../BFO/50/BFO_0000050.md) some [cleidocephalicus muscle](../../UBERON/64/UBERON_0011364.md)
 * [cleidocephalicus muscle](../../UBERON/64/UBERON_0011364.md) == [attached to](../../RO/71/RO_0002371.md) some [clavicle bone](../../UBERON/05/UBERON_0001105.md) and [attached to](../../RO/71/RO_0002371.md) some [mastoid process of temporal bone](../../UBERON/20/UBERON_0011220.md) and [skeletal muscle organ](../../UBERON/92/UBERON_0014892.md)
 * [cleidocephalicus muscle](../../UBERON/64/UBERON_0011364.md) SubClassOf [attached to](../../RO/71/RO_0002371.md) some [clavicle bone](../../UBERON/05/UBERON_0001105.md)
 * [cleidocephalicus muscle](../../UBERON/64/UBERON_0011364.md) SubClassOf [attached to](../../RO/71/RO_0002371.md) some [mastoid process of temporal bone](../../UBERON/20/UBERON_0011220.md)
 * [cleidocephalicus muscle](../../UBERON/64/UBERON_0011364.md) SubClassOf [has muscle origin](../../RO/72/RO_0002372.md) some [clavicle bone](../../UBERON/05/UBERON_0001105.md)
 * [cleidocephalicus muscle](../../UBERON/64/UBERON_0011364.md) SubClassOf [has_muscle_insertion](../../RO/73/RO_0002373.md) some [mastoid process of temporal bone](../../UBERON/20/UBERON_0011220.md)
 * [cleidocephalicus muscle](../../UBERON/64/UBERON_0011364.md) SubClassOf [muscle of shoulder](../../UBERON/82/UBERON_0001482.md)
 * [cleidocephalicus muscle](../../UBERON/64/UBERON_0011364.md) SubClassOf [part_of](../../BFO/50/BFO_0000050.md) some [brachiocephalic muscle](../../UBERON/68/UBERON_0011368.md)
 * [levator claviculae muscle](../../UBERON/51/UBERON_0011251.md) SubClassOf [part_of](../../BFO/50/BFO_0000050.md) some [cleidocephalicus muscle](../../UBERON/64/UBERON_0011364.md)
 * [sternocleidomastoid](../../UBERON/28/UBERON_0001128.md) SubClassOf [cleidocephalicus muscle](../../UBERON/64/UBERON_0011364.md)

## External Comments

