
## Class : levator nasolabialis muscle

 * *IRI* = http://purl.obolibrary.org/obo/UBERON_0011464
 * *Label* = levator nasolabialis muscle
 * *Definition* = Is a principal muscle of the lips which arises over the dorsum of the nose. It runs cranioventrally to insert partly on the wing of the nostril and partly into the lateral part of the upper lip. This muscles function includes dilation of the nostril, elevation and retraction of the upper lip. Branches of the facial nerve supply innervation to this muscle. [ [database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md) = MURDOCH:1180 ]

## Synonyms

 * levator nasolabialis [ [database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md) = MA:0002334 ]

## Cross-references

 * MA:0002334
 * UMLS:C1708693 [ [oboInOwl#source](../../ce/oboInOwl#source.md) = ncithesaurus:Levator_Nasolabialis ]
 * http://linkedlifedata.com/resource/umls/id/C1708693
 * http://ncicb.nci.nih.gov/xml/owl/EVS/Levator_Nasolabialis

## Subsets


## Superclasses

 * [cutaneous muscle](../../UBERON/21/UBERON_0006821.md)

## Equivalencies


## Other Logical Axioms


## Other Annotations

 * *[definition](../../IAO/15/IAO_0000115.md)* = Is a principal muscle of the lips which arises over the dorsum of the nose. It runs cranioventrally to insert partly on the wing of the nostril and partly into the lateral part of the upper lip. This muscles function includes dilation of the nostril, elevation and retraction of the upper lip. Branches of the facial nerve supply innervation to this muscle.
 * *[database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md)* = MA:0002334
 * *[database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md)* = UMLS:C1708693
 * *[database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md)* = http://linkedlifedata.com/resource/umls/id/C1708693
 * *[database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md)* = http://ncicb.nci.nih.gov/xml/owl/EVS/Levator_Nasolabialis
 * *[has_exact_synonym](../../ym/oboInOwl#hasExactSynonym.md)* = levator nasolabialis
 * *[rdf-schema#label](../../el/rdf-schema#label.md)* = levator nasolabialis muscle

## Usage

 * -
 * [levator nasolabialis muscle](../../UBERON/64/UBERON_0011464.md) SubClassOf [cutaneous muscle](../../UBERON/21/UBERON_0006821.md)

## External Comments

