
## Class : hip

 * *IRI* = http://purl.obolibrary.org/obo/UBERON_0001464
 * *Label* = hip
 * *Definition* = The hip region is located lateral to the gluteal region (i.e. the buttock), inferior to the iliac crest, and overlying the greater trochanter of the thigh bone. In adults, three of the bones of the pelvis have fused into the hip bone which forms part of the hip region. The hip joint, scientifically referred to as the acetabulofemoral joint (art. coxae), is the joint between the femur and acetabulum of the pelvis and its primary function is to support the weight of the body in both static (e.g. standing) and dynamic (e.g. walking or running) postures. [WP,modified]. [ [database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md) = Wikipedia:Hip ]
 * *Comment* = AO notes. See notes for shoulder. in BTO this is part of the abdomen - this creates an inconsistency if limb and abdomen are spatially disjoint

## Synonyms

 * hip region [ [database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md) = FMA:24964 ]
 * regio coxae [ [database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md) = FMA:24964 ]
 * coxa [ [database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md) = Wikipedia:Hip, [has_synonym_type](../../pe/oboInOwl#hasSynonymType.md) = http://purl.obolibrary.org/obo/uberon/core#LATIN ]

## Cross-references

 * BTO:0001457
 * CALOHA:TS-2226
 * EFO:0001929
 * EHDAA2:0000783
 * EHDAA:5153
 * EHDAA:6178
 * EMAPA:17490
 * FMA:24964
 * GAID:47
 * MA:0000045
 * MESH:A01.378.610.400
 * OpenCyc:Mx4rvVjhy5wpEbGdrcN5Y29ycA
 * SCTID:302543008
 * UMLS:C0019552 [ [oboInOwl#source](../../ce/oboInOwl#source.md) = ncithesaurus:Hip ]
 * VHOG:0000346
 * Wikipedia:Hip
 * galen:Hip
 * http://upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/9/9f/Hip.jpg
 * http://upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/9/9f/Hip.jpg/200px-Hip.jpg
 * ncithesaurus:Hip

## Subsets

 * http://purl.obolibrary.org/obo/uberon/core#efo_slim
 * http://purl.obolibrary.org/obo/uberon/core#uberon_slim

## Superclasses

 * [organism subdivision](../../UBERON/75/UBERON_0000475.md)
 * [part_of](../../BFO/50/BFO_0000050.md) some [pelvic complex](../../UBERON/09/UBERON_0010709.md)
 * [has_part](../../BFO/51/BFO_0000051.md) some [part_of](../../BFO/50/BFO_0000050.md) some [pelvic girdle region](../../UBERON/71/UBERON_0001271.md)

## Equivalencies


## Other Logical Axioms


## Other Annotations

 * *[homology_notes](../../UBPROP/03/UBPROP_0000003.md)* = The pelvic girdle is never joined by contributions of dermal bone. From its first appearance in placoderms, the pelvic girdle is exclusively endoskeletal. It arose from pterygiophores, perhaps several times, in support of the fin.[well established][VHOG]
 * *[has_relational_adjective](../../UBPROP/07/UBPROP_0000007.md)* = coxal
 * *[homologous_in](../../core#homologous/in/core#homologous_in.md)* = http://purl.obolibrary.org/obo/NCBITaxon_7742

## Usage


## External Comments

