
## Class : posttemporal-supracleithrum

 * *IRI* = http://purl.obolibrary.org/obo/UBERON_2001998
 * *Label* = posttemporal-supracleithrum
 * *Definition* = Dermal bone that results from the fusion of the dermal posttemporal and the dermal supracleithrum. Forms the upper skeletal element of the pectoral girdle between the cleithrum and neurocranium. Posttemporal-supracleithrum is paired. [ [database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md) = TAO:wd ]
 * *Comment* = A posttemporo-supracleithrum is a bone present in Siluriformes. There are different opinions if this is the result of an ontogenetic or a phylogenetic fusion or the loss or one or other bone.

## Synonyms

 * postemporo-supracleithrum [ [database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md) = TAO:0001998 ]
 * posttemporo-supracleithrum [ [database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md) = TAO:0001998 ]
 * posttemporal [ [database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md) = TAO:0001998 ]
 * supracleithrum [ [database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md) = TAO:0001998 ]

## Cross-references


## Subsets


## Superclasses

 * [pectoral girdle bone](../../UBERON/29/UBERON_0007829.md)
 * [dermal bone](../../UBERON/07/UBERON_0008907.md)
 * [part_of](../../BFO/50/BFO_0000050.md) some [pectoral girdle skeleton](../../UBERON/31/UBERON_0007831.md)
 * [develops_from](../../RO/02/RO_0002202.md) some [posttemporal](../../UBERON/49/UBERON_2000549.md)
 * [develops_from](../../RO/02/RO_0002202.md) some [supracleithrum](../../UBERON/94/UBERON_2000594.md)

## Equivalencies


## Other Logical Axioms


## Other Annotations

 * *[definition](../../IAO/15/IAO_0000115.md)* = Dermal bone that results from the fusion of the dermal posttemporal and the dermal supracleithrum. Forms the upper skeletal element of the pectoral girdle between the cleithrum and neurocranium. Posttemporal-supracleithrum is paired.
 * *[core#provenance_notes](../../core#provenance/es/core#provenance_notes.md)* = This class was sourced from an external ontology (teleost_anatomy). Its definitions, naming conventions and relationships may need to be checked for compatibility with uberon
 * *[oboInOwl#created_by](../../oboInOwl#created/by/oboInOwl#created_by.md)* = teleost_anatomy_curators
 * *[has_exact_synonym](../../ym/oboInOwl#hasExactSynonym.md)* = postemporo-supracleithrum
 * *[has_exact_synonym](../../ym/oboInOwl#hasExactSynonym.md)* = posttemporo-supracleithrum
 * *[has_related_synonym](../../ym/oboInOwl#hasRelatedSynonym.md)* = posttemporal
 * *[has_related_synonym](../../ym/oboInOwl#hasRelatedSynonym.md)* = supracleithrum
 * *[rdf-schema#comment](../../nt/rdf-schema#comment.md)* = A posttemporo-supracleithrum is a bone present in Siluriformes. There are different opinions if this is the result of an ontogenetic or a phylogenetic fusion or the loss or one or other bone.
 * *[rdf-schema#label](../../el/rdf-schema#label.md)* = posttemporal-supracleithrum

## Usage

 * -
 * [posttemporal-supracleithrum](../../UBERON/98/UBERON_2001998.md) SubClassOf [dermal bone](../../UBERON/07/UBERON_0008907.md)
 * [posttemporal-supracleithrum](../../UBERON/98/UBERON_2001998.md) SubClassOf [develops_from](../../RO/02/RO_0002202.md) some [posttemporal](../../UBERON/49/UBERON_2000549.md)
 * [posttemporal-supracleithrum](../../UBERON/98/UBERON_2001998.md) SubClassOf [develops_from](../../RO/02/RO_0002202.md) some [supracleithrum](../../UBERON/94/UBERON_2000594.md)
 * [posttemporal-supracleithrum](../../UBERON/98/UBERON_2001998.md) SubClassOf [part_of](../../BFO/50/BFO_0000050.md) some [pectoral girdle skeleton](../../UBERON/31/UBERON_0007831.md)
 * [posttemporal-supracleithrum](../../UBERON/98/UBERON_2001998.md) SubClassOf [pectoral girdle bone](../../UBERON/29/UBERON_0007829.md)

## External Comments

