
## Class : tertial remex feather

 * *IRI* = http://purl.obolibrary.org/obo/UBERON_0011798
 * *Label* = tertial remex feather
 * *Definition* = A remex feather that is connected to the humerus. [ [database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md) = http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Flight_feather#Tertials ]
 * *Comment* = tertials are connected to the humerus in some species. These elongated "true" tertials act as a protective cover for all or part of the folded primaries and secondaries, and do not qualify as flight feathers as such. However, many authorities use the term tertials to refer to the shorter, more symmetrical innermost secondaries of passerines (which perform the same function as true tertials) in an effort to distinguish them from the other secondaries.

## Synonyms

 * tertial flight feather
 * tertial remex
 * tertial remiges [ [has_synonym_type](../../pe/oboInOwl#hasSynonymType.md) = http://purl.obolibrary.org/obo/uberon/core#PLURAL ]
 * tertiary flight feather
 * tertiary remex
 * tertiary remiges [ [has_synonym_type](../../pe/oboInOwl#hasSynonymType.md) = http://purl.obolibrary.org/obo/uberon/core#PLURAL ]
 * true tertial

## Cross-references

 * http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Flight_feather#Tertials

## Subsets


## Superclasses

 * [remex feather](../../UBERON/95/UBERON_0011795.md)
 * [connected to](../../RO/70/RO_0002170.md) some [humerus](../../UBERON/76/UBERON_0000976.md)

## Equivalencies

 * [connected to](../../RO/70/RO_0002170.md) some [humerus](../../UBERON/76/UBERON_0000976.md) and [remex feather](../../UBERON/95/UBERON_0011795.md)

## Other Logical Axioms


## Other Annotations

 * *[definition](../../IAO/15/IAO_0000115.md)* = A remex feather that is connected to the humerus.
 * *[database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md)* = http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Flight_feather#Tertials
 * *[has_exact_synonym](../../ym/oboInOwl#hasExactSynonym.md)* = tertial flight feather
 * *[has_exact_synonym](../../ym/oboInOwl#hasExactSynonym.md)* = tertial remex
 * *[has_exact_synonym](../../ym/oboInOwl#hasExactSynonym.md)* = tertial remiges
 * *[has_exact_synonym](../../ym/oboInOwl#hasExactSynonym.md)* = tertiary flight feather
 * *[has_exact_synonym](../../ym/oboInOwl#hasExactSynonym.md)* = tertiary remex
 * *[has_exact_synonym](../../ym/oboInOwl#hasExactSynonym.md)* = tertiary remiges
 * *[has_exact_synonym](../../ym/oboInOwl#hasExactSynonym.md)* = true tertial
 * *[rdf-schema#comment](../../nt/rdf-schema#comment.md)* = tertials are connected to the humerus in some species. These elongated "true" tertials act as a protective cover for all or part of the folded primaries and secondaries, and do not qualify as flight feathers as such. However, many authorities use the term tertials to refer to the shorter, more symmetrical innermost secondaries of passerines (which perform the same function as true tertials) in an effort to distinguish them from the other secondaries.
 * *[rdf-schema#label](../../el/rdf-schema#label.md)* = tertial remex feather

## Usage

 * -
 * [tertial remex feather](../../UBERON/98/UBERON_0011798.md) == [connected to](../../RO/70/RO_0002170.md) some [humerus](../../UBERON/76/UBERON_0000976.md) and [remex feather](../../UBERON/95/UBERON_0011795.md)
 * [tertial remex feather](../../UBERON/98/UBERON_0011798.md) SubClassOf [connected to](../../RO/70/RO_0002170.md) some [humerus](../../UBERON/76/UBERON_0000976.md)
 * [tertial remex feather](../../UBERON/98/UBERON_0011798.md) SubClassOf [remex feather](../../UBERON/95/UBERON_0011795.md)

## External Comments

