
## Class : clavotrapezius muscle

 * *IRI* = http://purl.obolibrary.org/obo/UBERON_0014798
 * *Label* = clavotrapezius muscle
 * *Definition* = The most anterior of the trapezius muscles, found in felids, it is also the largest. Its fibers run obliquely to the ventral surface. Its origin is the superior nuchal line and median dorsal line and its insertion is the clavicle. Its action is to draw the clavicle dorsally and towards the head. [ [database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md) = http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cat_anatomy#Clavotrapezius ]

## Synonyms

 * clavotrapezius

## Cross-references


## Subsets


## Superclasses

 * [trapezius muscle](../../UBERON/80/UBERON_0002380.md)
 * [has muscle origin](../../RO/72/RO_0002372.md) some [superior nuchal line attachment site](../../UBERON/03/UBERON_0014803.md)
 * [has_muscle_insertion](../../RO/73/RO_0002373.md) some [clavicle bone](../../UBERON/05/UBERON_0001105.md)

## Equivalencies


## Other Logical Axioms


## Other Annotations

 * *[definition](../../IAO/15/IAO_0000115.md)* = The most anterior of the trapezius muscles, found in felids, it is also the largest. Its fibers run obliquely to the ventral surface. Its origin is the superior nuchal line and median dorsal line and its insertion is the clavicle. Its action is to draw the clavicle dorsally and towards the head.
 * *[present_in_taxon](../../RO/75/RO_0002175.md)* = http://purl.obolibrary.org/obo/NCBITaxon_9681
 * *[has_exact_synonym](../../ym/oboInOwl#hasExactSynonym.md)* = clavotrapezius
 * *[rdf-schema#label](../../el/rdf-schema#label.md)* = clavotrapezius muscle

## Usage

 * -
 * [clavotrapezius muscle](../../UBERON/98/UBERON_0014798.md) SubClassOf [has muscle origin](../../RO/72/RO_0002372.md) some [superior nuchal line attachment site](../../UBERON/03/UBERON_0014803.md)
 * [clavotrapezius muscle](../../UBERON/98/UBERON_0014798.md) SubClassOf [has_muscle_insertion](../../RO/73/RO_0002373.md) some [clavicle bone](../../UBERON/05/UBERON_0001105.md)
 * [clavotrapezius muscle](../../UBERON/98/UBERON_0014798.md) SubClassOf [trapezius muscle](../../UBERON/80/UBERON_0002380.md)

## External Comments

