
## Class : fish scute

 * *IRI* = http://purl.obolibrary.org/obo/UBERON_2002294
 * *Label* = fish scute
 * *Definition* = Dermal bone that is an unpaired, scale-like structure. Arratia, G. 2009. Identifying patterns of diversity of the actinopterygian fulcra. Acta Zoologica (Stockholm) 90 (Suppl. 1): 220-235. [ [database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md) = PSPUB:0000171, [database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md) = TAO:wd ]
 * *Comment* = temporarily relabeled 'fish scute' to distinguish from reptilian scute class. To DO: reconcile definitions for the two sets of classes.

## Synonyms

 * ridge scale [ [database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md) = TAO:0002294 ]

## Cross-references


## Subsets


## Superclasses

 * [dermal bone](../../UBERON/07/UBERON_0008907.md)

## Equivalencies


## Other Logical Axioms


## Other Annotations

 * *[definition](../../IAO/15/IAO_0000115.md)* = Dermal bone that is an unpaired, scale-like structure. Arratia, G. 2009. Identifying patterns of diversity of the actinopterygian fulcra. Acta Zoologica (Stockholm) 90 (Suppl. 1): 220-235.
 * *[core#provenance_notes](../../core#provenance/es/core#provenance_notes.md)* = This class was sourced from an external ontology (teleost_anatomy). Its definitions, naming conventions and relationships may need to be checked for compatibility with uberon
 * *[oboInOwl#created_by](../../oboInOwl#created/by/oboInOwl#created_by.md)* = teleost_anatomy_curators
 * *[has_exact_synonym](../../ym/oboInOwl#hasExactSynonym.md)* = ridge scale
 * *[rdf-schema#comment](../../nt/rdf-schema#comment.md)* = temporarily relabeled 'fish scute' to distinguish from reptilian scute class. To DO: reconcile definitions for the two sets of classes.
 * *[rdf-schema#label](../../el/rdf-schema#label.md)* = fish scute

## Usage

 * -
 * [abdominal scute](../../UBERON/47/UBERON_2001547.md) SubClassOf [fish scute](../../UBERON/94/UBERON_2002294.md)
 * [caudal scute](../../UBERON/06/UBERON_2001606.md) SubClassOf [fish scute](../../UBERON/94/UBERON_2002294.md)
 * [dorsal scute](../../UBERON/60/UBERON_2001160.md) SubClassOf [fish scute](../../UBERON/94/UBERON_2002294.md)
 * [fish scute](../../UBERON/94/UBERON_2002294.md) SubClassOf [dermal bone](../../UBERON/07/UBERON_0008907.md)
 * [infranuchal scute](../../UBERON/31/UBERON_2001931.md) SubClassOf [fish scute](../../UBERON/94/UBERON_2002294.md)
 * [predorsal scute](../../UBERON/13/UBERON_4200113.md) SubClassOf [fish scute](../../UBERON/94/UBERON_2002294.md)

## External Comments

