
## Class : caudal-fin ray pump

 * *IRI* = http://purl.obolibrary.org/obo/UBERON_2002126
 * *Label* = caudal-fin ray pump
 * *Definition* = Anatomical cluster that consists of thickened caudal-fin rays modified into a pumping mechanism associated with the caudal-fin organ. [ [database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md) = TAO:wd ]
 * *Comment* = Caudal fin rays can vary in thickness and form of the pump can vary from a simple open groove to complex chambered structure.

Definition reference:
Weitzman SH, Menezes NA. 1998. Relationships of the tribes and genera of
the Glandulocaudiinae (Ostariophysi: Characiformes: Characidae), with a
description of a new genus. In: Malabarba LR, Reis RE, Vari RP, Lucena ZMS,
Lucena CAS, editors. Phylogeny and Classification of Neotropical Fishes.
Porto Alegre: EDIPUCRS. p 171-192.

## Synonyms


## Cross-references


## Subsets


## Superclasses

 * [anatomical cluster](../../UBERON/77/UBERON_0000477.md)
 * [part_of](../../BFO/50/BFO_0000050.md) some [caudal fin](../../UBERON/64/UBERON_4000164.md)

## Equivalencies


## Other Logical Axioms


## Other Annotations

 * *[definition](../../IAO/15/IAO_0000115.md)* = Anatomical cluster that consists of thickened caudal-fin rays modified into a pumping mechanism associated with the caudal-fin organ.
 * *[core#provenance_notes](../../core#provenance/es/core#provenance_notes.md)* = This class was sourced from an external ontology (teleost_anatomy). Its definitions, naming conventions and relationships may need to be checked for compatibility with uberon
 * *[oboInOwl#created_by](../../oboInOwl#created/by/oboInOwl#created_by.md)* = teleost_anatomy_curators
 * *[rdf-schema#comment](../../nt/rdf-schema#comment.md)* = Caudal fin rays can vary in thickness and form of the pump can vary from a simple open groove to complex chambered structure.

Definition reference:
Weitzman SH, Menezes NA. 1998. Relationships of the tribes and genera of
the Glandulocaudiinae (Ostariophysi: Characiformes: Characidae), with a
description of a new genus. In: Malabarba LR, Reis RE, Vari RP, Lucena ZMS,
Lucena CAS, editors. Phylogeny and Classification of Neotropical Fishes.
Porto Alegre: EDIPUCRS. p 171-192.
 * *[rdf-schema#label](../../el/rdf-schema#label.md)* = caudal-fin ray pump

## Usage

 * -
 * [caudal-fin ray pump](../../UBERON/26/UBERON_2002126.md) SubClassOf [anatomical cluster](../../UBERON/77/UBERON_0000477.md)
 * [caudal-fin ray pump](../../UBERON/26/UBERON_2002126.md) SubClassOf [part_of](../../BFO/50/BFO_0000050.md) some [caudal fin](../../UBERON/64/UBERON_4000164.md)

## External Comments

