
## Class : trachea

 * *IRI* = http://purl.obolibrary.org/obo/UBERON_0003126
 * *Label* = trachea
 * *Definition* = The trachea is the portion of the airway that attaches to the bronchi as it branches [GO:dph]. [ [database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md) = GO:0060438, [database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md) = Wikipedia:Vertebrate_trachea ]
 * *Comment* = Taxon notes: in mouse 15-18 C-rings, 15-20 in human. [ISBN10:0123813611]. In birds, the trachea runs from the pharynx to the syrinx, from which the primary bronchi diverge. Swans have an unusually elongated trachea, part of which is coiled beneath the sternum; this may act as a resonator to amplify sound. In some birds, the cartilagenous rings are complete, and may even be ossified. In amphibians, the trachea is normally extremely short, and leads directly into the lungs, without clear primary bronchi. A longer trachea is, however found in some long-necked salamanders, and in caecilians. While there are irregular cartilagenous nodules on the amphibian trachea, these do not form the rings found in amniotes. The only vertebrate to have lungs, but no trachea, is Polypterus, in which the lungs arise directly from the pharynx.

## Synonyms

 * cartilaginous trachea
 * vertebrate trachea [ [has_synonym_type](../../pe/oboInOwl#hasSynonymType.md) = http://purl.obolibrary.org/obo/uberon/core#SENSU ]
 * windpipe
 * tracheal tubule [ [database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md) = BTO:0001388 ]

## Cross-references

 * AAO:0010140
 * BTO:0001388
 * CALOHA:TS-1060
 * EFO:0000935
 * EHDAA2:0002066
 * EHDAA:3078
 * EMAPA:16853
 * EV:0100040
 * FMA:7394
 * GAID:361
 * MA:0000441
 * MAT:0000137
 * MESH:A04.889
 * MIAA:0000137
 * OpenCyc:Mx4rvViOX5wpEbGdrcN5Y29ycA
 * SCTID:181213009
 * UMLS:C0040578 [ [oboInOwl#source](../../ce/oboInOwl#source.md) = ncithesaurus:Trachea ]
 * VHOG:0000371
 * Wikipedia:Vertebrate_trachea
 * XAO:0000118
 * http://upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/9/9f/Illu_conducting_passages.svg
 * http://upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/c/c3/Illu_conducting_passages.jpg/200px-Illu_conducting_passages.jpg
 * ncithesaurus:Trachea

## Subsets

 * http://purl.obolibrary.org/obo/uberon/core#efo_slim
 * http://purl.obolibrary.org/obo/uberon/core#major_organ
 * http://purl.obolibrary.org/obo/uberon/core#uberon_slim

## Superclasses

 * [respiratory tube](../../UBERON/17/UBERON_0000117.md)
 * [part_of](../../BFO/50/BFO_0000050.md) some [tracheobronchial tree](../../UBERON/96/UBERON_0007196.md)
 * [located_in](../../RO/25/RO_0001025.md) some [thoracic cavity](../../UBERON/24/UBERON_0002224.md)
 * [only_in_taxon](../../RO/60/RO_0002160.md) some [Vertebrata <Metazoa>](../../NCBITaxon/42/NCBITaxon_7742.md)
 * [develops from](../../RO/02/RO_0002202.md) some [respiratory primordium](../../UBERON/47/UBERON_0008947.md)

## Equivalencies


## Other Logical Axioms


## Other Annotations

 * *[external_definition](../../UBPROP/01/UBPROP_0000001.md)* = An elongated tube which carries air to and from the lungs.[AAO]
 * *[external_definition](../../UBPROP/01/UBPROP_0000001.md)* = The respiratory tube between the larynx and the bronchi. [Bemis_WE, Functional_Anatomy_of_the_Vertebrates:_An_Evolutionary_Perspective, Glossary_G-29, Grande_L, Liem_KF, Third_Edition_(2001)_Orlando_Fla.:_Harcourt_College_Publishers, Walker_WF][VHOG]
 * *[homology_notes](../../UBPROP/03/UBPROP_0000003.md)* = In primitive fishes and most tetrapods, the lungs of adults are usually paired. They lie ventral to the digestive tract and are connected to the outside environment through the trachea.[well established][VHOG]
 * *[has_relational_adjective](../../UBPROP/07/UBPROP_0000007.md)* = tracheal
 * *[homologous_in](../../core#homologous/in/core#homologous_in.md)* = http://purl.obolibrary.org/obo/NCBITaxon_7742

## Usage


## External Comments

