
## Class : hypodermis

 * *IRI* = http://purl.obolibrary.org/obo/UBERON_0002072
 * *Label* = hypodermis
 * *Definition* = Lowermost layer of the integumentary system in vertebrates. Types of cells that are found in the hypodermis are fibroblasts, adipose cells, and macrophages. It is derived from the mesoderm, but unlike the dermis, it is not derived from the dermatome region of the mesoderm. The hypodermis is used mainly for fat storage[WP]. [ [database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md) = Wikipedia:Hypodermis ]
 * *Comment* = AO Notes: BTO has 'subcutis', as part of dermis. We follow FMA in having distinct classes for hypodermis and superficial fascia, and including these as part of the non-skin intgeument.

## Synonyms

 * hypoderm
 * vertebrate hypodermis
 * sub-tegumental tissue [ [database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md) = BTO:0004525 ]
 * subcutaneous tissue [ [database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md) = Wikipedia:Hypodermis ]
 * subcutis
 * subtegumental tissue [ [database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md) = BTO:0004525 ]
 * superficial fascia [ [has_synonym_type](../../pe/oboInOwl#hasSynonymType.md) = http://purl.obolibrary.org/obo/uberon/core#INCONSISTENT ]
 * tela subcutanea [ [database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md) = Wikipedia:Hypodermis, [has_synonym_type](../../pe/oboInOwl#hasSynonymType.md) = http://purl.obolibrary.org/obo/uberon/core#LATIN ]

## Cross-references

 * BTO:0001314
 * CALOHA:TS-2366
 * FMA:70544
 * TAO:0001136
 * UMLS:C0278403 [ [oboInOwl#source](../../ce/oboInOwl#source.md) = ncithesaurus:Subcutis ]
 * Wikipedia:Hypodermis
 * ZFA:0001136
 * http://upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/6/6d/Skin.svg/200px-Skin.svg.png
 * ncithesaurus:Subcutis

## Subsets

 * http://purl.obolibrary.org/obo/uberon/core#uberon_slim
 * http://purl.obolibrary.org/obo/uberon/core#vertebrate_core

## Superclasses

 * [connective tissue](../../UBERON/84/UBERON_0002384.md)
 * [mesoderm-derived structure](../../UBERON/20/UBERON_0004120.md)
 * [part_of](../../BFO/50/BFO_0000050.md) some [integument](../../UBERON/99/UBERON_0002199.md)
 * [develops from](../../RO/02/RO_0002202.md) some [mesoderm](../../UBERON/26/UBERON_0000926.md)
 * [adjacent to](../../RO/20/RO_0002220.md) some [dermis](../../UBERON/67/UBERON_0002067.md)

## Equivalencies


## Other Logical Axioms


## Other Annotations

 * *[external_definition](../../UBPROP/01/UBPROP_0000001.md)* = A layer separating the inner face of the dermis from the subjacent muscle cells. It is covered on both sides by a basement membrane.  It contains pigment cells. Le Guellec et al, 2004.[TAO]
 * *[external_definition](../../UBPROP/01/UBPROP_0000001.md)* = A layer separating the inner face of the dermis from the subjacent muscle cells. It is covered on both sides by a basement membrane. It contains pigment cells[FMA:70544].
 * *[has_relational_adjective](../../UBPROP/07/UBPROP_0000007.md)* = hypodermal
 * *[has_relational_adjective](../../UBPROP/07/UBPROP_0000007.md)* = subcutaneous
 * *[has_relational_adjective](../../UBPROP/07/UBPROP_0000007.md)* = subcutaneus

## Usage


## External Comments

