
## Class : ventral lateral sacrocaudal muscle

 * *IRI* = http://purl.obolibrary.org/obo/UBERON_0011472
 * *Label* = ventral lateral sacrocaudal muscle
 * *Definition* = The ventral lateral sacrocaudal is a long strong muscle consisting of numerous individual parts. Its first segment originates from the last lumbar vertebrae and the remainder from the transverse processes of the caudal vertebrae. From the segmented bellies arise long tendons which are embedded in caudal fascia. The first of these tendons inserts onto the sixth caudal vertebrae, the second onto the seventh and so on until the last caudal vertebrae. The ventral lateral sacrocaudal acts to flex the tail and occasionally assists with lateral movement. [ [database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md) = MURDOCH:2183 ]

## Synonyms

 * lumbosacrocaudalis [ [database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md) = MA:0002342 ]
 * lumbosacrocaudalis muscle [ [database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md) = MA:0002342 ]
 * ventral lateral sacrocaudal [ [database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md) = MURDOCH:2183 ]

## Cross-references

 * MA:0002342
 * MURDOCH:2183

## Subsets


## Superclasses

 * [muscle organ](../../UBERON/30/UBERON_0001630.md)
 * [has_part](../../BFO/51/BFO_0000051.md) some [part_of](../../BFO/50/BFO_0000050.md) some [tail](../../UBERON/15/UBERON_0002415.md)
 * [capable of part of](../../RO/16/RO_0002216.md) some [tail movement](../../NBO/45/NBO_0000445.md)
 * [attached to](../../RO/71/RO_0002371.md) some [caudal vertebra](../../UBERON/95/UBERON_0001095.md)
 * [attached to](../../RO/71/RO_0002371.md) some [lumbar vertebra](../../UBERON/14/UBERON_0002414.md)

## Equivalencies


## Other Logical Axioms


## Other Annotations

 * *[definition](../../IAO/15/IAO_0000115.md)* = The ventral lateral sacrocaudal is a long strong muscle consisting of numerous individual parts. Its first segment originates from the last lumbar vertebrae and the remainder from the transverse processes of the caudal vertebrae. From the segmented bellies arise long tendons which are embedded in caudal fascia. The first of these tendons inserts onto the sixth caudal vertebrae, the second onto the seventh and so on until the last caudal vertebrae. The ventral lateral sacrocaudal acts to flex the tail and occasionally assists with lateral movement.
 * *[database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md)* = MA:0002342
 * *[database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md)* = MURDOCH:2183
 * *[has_exact_synonym](../../ym/oboInOwl#hasExactSynonym.md)* = lumbosacrocaudalis
 * *[has_exact_synonym](../../ym/oboInOwl#hasExactSynonym.md)* = lumbosacrocaudalis muscle
 * *[has_exact_synonym](../../ym/oboInOwl#hasExactSynonym.md)* = ventral lateral sacrocaudal
 * *[rdf-schema#label](../../el/rdf-schema#label.md)* = ventral lateral sacrocaudal muscle

## Usage

 * -
 * [ventral lateral sacrocaudal muscle](../../UBERON/72/UBERON_0011472.md) SubClassOf [attached to](../../RO/71/RO_0002371.md) some [caudal vertebra](../../UBERON/95/UBERON_0001095.md)
 * [ventral lateral sacrocaudal muscle](../../UBERON/72/UBERON_0011472.md) SubClassOf [attached to](../../RO/71/RO_0002371.md) some [lumbar vertebra](../../UBERON/14/UBERON_0002414.md)
 * [ventral lateral sacrocaudal muscle](../../UBERON/72/UBERON_0011472.md) SubClassOf [capable of part of](../../RO/16/RO_0002216.md) some [tail movement](../../NBO/45/NBO_0000445.md)
 * [ventral lateral sacrocaudal muscle](../../UBERON/72/UBERON_0011472.md) SubClassOf [has_part](../../BFO/51/BFO_0000051.md) some [part_of](../../BFO/50/BFO_0000050.md) some [tail](../../UBERON/15/UBERON_0002415.md)
 * [ventral lateral sacrocaudal muscle](../../UBERON/72/UBERON_0011472.md) SubClassOf [muscle organ](../../UBERON/30/UBERON_0001630.md)

## External Comments

