
## Class : uroneural

 * *IRI* = http://purl.obolibrary.org/obo/UBERON_2000602
 * *Label* = uroneural
 * *Definition* = Neural arch that extends along the dorso-lateral surface of the last preural centra and/or ural centra and the notochord (Arratia & Schultze, 1992). An uroneural develops as a modification of the neural arch of an ural centrum (Patterson, 1968). The series of uroneurals may include from 7 to 1 elements that are numbered from rostrad to caudad. An uroneural is a paired membrane bone. [ [database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md) = TAO:Arratia_Schultze_1992, [database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md) = TAO:Patterson_1968 ]
 * *Comment* = The presence of modified ural neural arches or uroneurals is interpreted as a synapomorphy of Teleostei. Uroneurals present some modifications in certain teleost subgroups and such specialized structures are named pleurostyle (e.g., ostarioclupeomorphs) and stegural (e.g., salmonids).

## Synonyms

 * uroneurals [ [database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md) = TAO:0000602, [has_synonym_type](../../pe/oboInOwl#hasSynonymType.md) = http://purl.obolibrary.org/obo/core#PLURAL ]

## Cross-references

 * ZFA:0000602

## Subsets


## Superclasses

 * [neural arch](../../UBERON/61/UBERON_0003861.md)
 * [fin bone](../../UBERON/76/UBERON_0004376.md)
 * [part_of](../../BFO/50/BFO_0000050.md) some [caudal fin skeleton](../../UBERON/67/UBERON_4000167.md)

## Equivalencies


## Other Logical Axioms


## Other Annotations

 * *[definition](../../IAO/15/IAO_0000115.md)* = Neural arch that extends along the dorso-lateral surface of the last preural centra and/or ural centra and the notochord (Arratia & Schultze, 1992). An uroneural develops as a modification of the neural arch of an ural centrum (Patterson, 1968). The series of uroneurals may include from 7 to 1 elements that are numbered from rostrad to caudad. An uroneural is a paired membrane bone.
 * *[core#provenance_notes](../../core#provenance/es/core#provenance_notes.md)* = This class was sourced from an external ontology (teleost_anatomy). Its definitions, naming conventions and relationships may need to be checked for compatibility with uberon
 * *[oboInOwl#created_by](../../oboInOwl#created/by/oboInOwl#created_by.md)* = teleost_anatomy_curators
 * *[database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md)* = ZFA:0000602
 * *[has_exact_synonym](../../ym/oboInOwl#hasExactSynonym.md)* = uroneurals
 * *[rdf-schema#comment](../../nt/rdf-schema#comment.md)* = The presence of modified ural neural arches or uroneurals is interpreted as a synapomorphy of Teleostei. Uroneurals present some modifications in certain teleost subgroups and such specialized structures are named pleurostyle (e.g., ostarioclupeomorphs) and stegural (e.g., salmonids).
 * *[rdf-schema#label](../../el/rdf-schema#label.md)* = uroneural

## Usage

 * -
 * [pleurostyle](../../UBERON/84/UBERON_2002084.md) SubClassOf [uroneural](../../UBERON/02/UBERON_2000602.md)
 * [stegural](../../UBERON/67/UBERON_2002167.md) SubClassOf [uroneural](../../UBERON/02/UBERON_2000602.md)
 * [upper uroneural](../../UBERON/02/UBERON_4500002.md) SubClassOf [uroneural](../../UBERON/02/UBERON_2000602.md)
 * [uroneural 1](../../UBERON/64/UBERON_2002064.md) SubClassOf [uroneural](../../UBERON/02/UBERON_2000602.md)
 * [uroneural 2](../../UBERON/09/UBERON_2002109.md) SubClassOf [uroneural](../../UBERON/02/UBERON_2000602.md)
 * [uroneural 3](../../UBERON/15/UBERON_2002115.md) SubClassOf [uroneural](../../UBERON/02/UBERON_2000602.md)
 * [uroneural](../../UBERON/02/UBERON_2000602.md) SubClassOf [fin bone](../../UBERON/76/UBERON_0004376.md)
 * [uroneural](../../UBERON/02/UBERON_2000602.md) SubClassOf [neural arch](../../UBERON/61/UBERON_0003861.md)
 * [uroneural](../../UBERON/02/UBERON_2000602.md) SubClassOf [part_of](../../BFO/50/BFO_0000050.md) some [caudal fin skeleton](../../UBERON/67/UBERON_4000167.md)

## External Comments

