
## Class : palatine prong

 * *IRI* = http://purl.obolibrary.org/obo/UBERON_4300002
 * *Label* = palatine prong
 * *Definition* = A process on the palatine that projects outward and upward and articulates with a depression (maxillary saddle) in the proximal end of the maxilla. [Gosline WA et al, 1966; Baldwin, CC and Johnson GD. 1996. Interrelationships of Aulopiformes. Pages 355-404 in MLJ Stiassny, LR Parenti, and DG Johnson, (eds.), Interrelationships of fishes. Academic Press, San Diego, CA.]]

## Synonyms


## Cross-references


## Subsets


## Superclasses

 * [mesoderm-derived structure](../../UBERON/20/UBERON_0004120.md)
 * [bony projection](../../UBERON/30/UBERON_0004530.md)
 * [neural crest-derived structure](../../UBERON/13/UBERON_0010313.md)
 * [skeletal element projection](../../UBERON/00/UBERON_4100000.md)
 * [part_of](../../BFO/50/BFO_0000050.md) some [palatine bone](../../UBERON/82/UBERON_0001682.md)

## Equivalencies


## Other Logical Axioms


## Other Annotations

 * *[definition](../../IAO/15/IAO_0000115.md)* = A process on the palatine that projects outward and upward and articulates with a depression (maxillary saddle) in the proximal end of the maxilla. [Gosline WA et al, 1966; Baldwin, CC and Johnson GD. 1996. Interrelationships of Aulopiformes. Pages 355-404 in MLJ Stiassny, LR Parenti, and DG Johnson, (eds.), Interrelationships of fishes. Academic Press, San Diego, CA.]]
 * *[oboInOwl#created_by](../../oboInOwl#created/by/oboInOwl#created_by.md)* = WD
 * *[rdf-schema#label](../../el/rdf-schema#label.md)* = palatine prong

## Usage

 * -
 * [palatine prong](../../UBERON/02/UBERON_4300002.md) SubClassOf [bony projection](../../UBERON/30/UBERON_0004530.md)
 * [palatine prong](../../UBERON/02/UBERON_4300002.md) SubClassOf [mesoderm-derived structure](../../UBERON/20/UBERON_0004120.md)
 * [palatine prong](../../UBERON/02/UBERON_4300002.md) SubClassOf [neural crest-derived structure](../../UBERON/13/UBERON_0010313.md)
 * [palatine prong](../../UBERON/02/UBERON_4300002.md) SubClassOf [part_of](../../BFO/50/BFO_0000050.md) some [palatine bone](../../UBERON/82/UBERON_0001682.md)
 * [palatine prong](../../UBERON/02/UBERON_4300002.md) SubClassOf [skeletal element projection](../../UBERON/00/UBERON_4100000.md)

## External Comments

