
## Class : internal intercostal muscle

 * *IRI* = http://purl.obolibrary.org/obo/UBERON_0002403
 * *Label* = internal intercostal muscle
 * *Definition* = Intercostal muscles are several groups of muscles that run between the ribs, and help form and move the chest wall. There are three principal layers; the external intercostal muscles, which aid in quiet and forced inhalation. They originate on ribs 1-11 and have their insertion on ribs 2-12. The external intercostals are responsible for the elevation of the ribs, and expanding the transverse dimensions of the thoracic cavity. Located around the ribs the internal intercostal muscles, which aid in forced expiration (quiet expiration is a passive process). They originate on ribs 2-12 and have their insertions on ribs 1-11. The internal intercostals are responsible for the depression of the ribs decreasing the transverse dimensions of the thoracic cavity. the innermost intercostal muscle, the deep layers of the internal intercostal muscles which are separated from them by the neurovascular bundle. Both the external and internal muscles are innervated by the intercostal nerves, and are provided by the intercostal arteries and intercostal veins. Their fibers run in opposite directions. [WP,unvetted]. [[database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md) =  + Wikipedia:Intercostal_muscle]
 * *Comment* = This class was created automatically from a combination of ontologies

## Synonyms

 * intercostales internus
 * intercostal muscle internal layer

## Cross-references

 * EHDAA2:0000875
 * EMAPA:18523
 * FMA:9757
 * MA:0002326
 * OpenCyc:Mx4rvlj6HZwpEbGdrcN5Y29ycA
 * SCTID:244890001
 * UMLS:C1744536 [[oboInOwl#source](../../ce/oboInOwl#source.md) =  + ncithesaurus:Internal_Intercostal_Muscle]
 * VHOG:0000905
 * Wikipedia:Intercostal_muscle
 * http://upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/f/f2/Gray411.png/200px-Gray411.png
 * ncithesaurus:Internal_Intercostal_Muscle

## Subsets

 * http://purl.obolibrary.org/obo/uberon/core#uberon_slim

## Superclasses

 * [intercostal muscle](../../UBERON/11/UBERON_0001111.md)
 * [develops from](../../RO/02/RO_0002202.md) some [internal intercostal pre-muscle mass](../../UBERON/81/UBERON_0010981.md)

## Equivalencies


## Other Logical Axioms


## Other Annotations

 * *[homology_notes](../../UBPROP/03/UBPROP_0000003.md)* = Behind the thorax, the lateral group (of muscles in reptiles and mammals) remains essentially as for amphibians. (It breaks into three sheet-like layers: external oblique muscle, the internal oblique, and the transversus). More anteriorly, however, the ribs, now enlarged, penetrate and alter this group of muscles. The transversus is excluded from the thorax and the external and internal obliques become, respectively, the external and internal intercostal muscles, which contribute to the new function of ventilation of the lungs.[well established][VHOG]
 * *[homologous_in](../../core#homologous/in/core#homologous_in.md)* = http://purl.obolibrary.org/obo/NCBITaxon_7742
 * *[has_obo_namespace](../../ce/oboInOwl#hasOBONamespace.md)* = uberon
 * *[oboInOwl#id](../../id/oboInOwl#id.md)* = UBERON:0002403

## External Comments

