
## Class : ventro-caudal cluster

 * *IRI* = http://purl.obolibrary.org/obo/UBERON_2007003
 * *Label* = ventro-caudal cluster
 * *Definition* = Early-forming neural cluster of the ventral midbrain. At 16 h, axons of the vcc grow caudally to pioneer the medial longitudinal fasciculus (MLF), which is part of the larger ventral longitudinal tract (VLT). Later, neurons from this cluster project axons rostrally into the tract of the post-optic commissure (TPOC). Ross et al., 1992. [ [database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md) = ZFIN:curator ]

## Synonyms

 * vcc [ [database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md) = TAO:0007003 ]
 * ventrocaudal cluster [ [database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md) = TAO:0007003 ]

## Cross-references

 * ZFA:0007003

## Subsets


## Superclasses

 * [midbrain](../../UBERON/91/UBERON_0001891.md)

## Equivalencies


## Other Logical Axioms


## Other Annotations

 * *[definition](../../IAO/15/IAO_0000115.md)* = Early-forming neural cluster of the ventral midbrain. At 16 h, axons of the vcc grow caudally to pioneer the medial longitudinal fasciculus (MLF), which is part of the larger ventral longitudinal tract (VLT). Later, neurons from this cluster project axons rostrally into the tract of the post-optic commissure (TPOC). Ross et al., 1992.
 * *[core#provenance_notes](../../core#provenance/es/core#provenance_notes.md)* = This class was sourced from an external ontology (teleost_anatomy). Its definitions, naming conventions and relationships may need to be checked for compatibility with uberon
 * *[oboInOwl#created_by](../../oboInOwl#created/by/oboInOwl#created_by.md)* = teleost_anatomy_curators
 * *[database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md)* = ZFA:0007003
 * *[has_exact_synonym](../../ym/oboInOwl#hasExactSynonym.md)* = vcc
 * *[has_exact_synonym](../../ym/oboInOwl#hasExactSynonym.md)* = ventrocaudal cluster
 * *[rdf-schema#label](../../el/rdf-schema#label.md)* = ventro-caudal cluster

## Usage

 * -
 * [ventro-caudal cluster](../../UBERON/03/UBERON_2007003.md) SubClassOf [midbrain](../../UBERON/91/UBERON_0001891.md)

## External Comments

