
## Class : joint space of elbow

 * *IRI* = http://purl.obolibrary.org/obo/UBERON_0004099
 * *Label* = joint space of elbow
 * *Definition* = Joint cavity shared by all the joints of the elbow. The elbow joint is a compound joint that actually comprises three separate joints: the joints connecting the upper and lower arm: 1) Articulatio humero-ulnaris and 2) Articulatio humero-radialis as well as the proximal joint connecting the forarm bones: 3) Articulatio radio-ulnaris proximalis. All three share a joint cavity which is highly sinuated/scalloped/coved. Joint spaces of the elbow summarizes the joint cavity shared by all three adjoining joints of the elbow joint. [ [database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md) = HP:0003943 ]

## Synonyms

 * synovial cavity of elbow joint [ [database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md) = FMA:38911 ]

## Cross-references

 * FMA:38911

## Subsets

 * http://purl.obolibrary.org/obo/uberon/core#pheno_slim

## Superclasses

 * [anatomical space](../../UBERON/64/UBERON_0000464.md)
 * [part_of](../../BFO/50/BFO_0000050.md) some [elbow joint](../../UBERON/90/UBERON_0001490.md)
 * [luminal space of](../../RO/72/RO_0002572.md) some [elbow joint](../../UBERON/90/UBERON_0001490.md)

## Equivalencies

 * [anatomical space](../../UBERON/64/UBERON_0000464.md) and [luminal space of](../../RO/72/RO_0002572.md) some [elbow joint](../../UBERON/90/UBERON_0001490.md)

## Other Logical Axioms


## Other Annotations

 * *[definition](../../IAO/15/IAO_0000115.md)* = Joint cavity shared by all the joints of the elbow. The elbow joint is a compound joint that actually comprises three separate joints: the joints connecting the upper and lower arm: 1) Articulatio humero-ulnaris and 2) Articulatio humero-radialis as well as the proximal joint connecting the forarm bones: 3) Articulatio radio-ulnaris proximalis. All three share a joint cavity which is highly sinuated/scalloped/coved. Joint spaces of the elbow summarizes the joint cavity shared by all three adjoining joints of the elbow joint.
 * *[database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md)* = FMA:38911
 * *[has_exact_synonym](../../ym/oboInOwl#hasExactSynonym.md)* = synovial cavity of elbow joint
 * *[in_subset](../../et/oboInOwl#inSubset.md)* = http://purl.obolibrary.org/obo/uberon/core#pheno_slim
 * *[rdf-schema#label](../../el/rdf-schema#label.md)* = joint space of elbow

## Usage

 * -
 * [joint space of elbow](../../UBERON/99/UBERON_0004099.md) == [anatomical space](../../UBERON/64/UBERON_0000464.md) and [luminal space of](../../RO/72/RO_0002572.md) some [elbow joint](../../UBERON/90/UBERON_0001490.md)
 * [joint space of elbow](../../UBERON/99/UBERON_0004099.md) SubClassOf [anatomical space](../../UBERON/64/UBERON_0000464.md)
 * [joint space of elbow](../../UBERON/99/UBERON_0004099.md) SubClassOf [luminal space of](../../RO/72/RO_0002572.md) some [elbow joint](../../UBERON/90/UBERON_0001490.md)
 * [joint space of elbow](../../UBERON/99/UBERON_0004099.md) SubClassOf [part_of](../../BFO/50/BFO_0000050.md) some [elbow joint](../../UBERON/90/UBERON_0001490.md)

## External Comments

