
## Class : cochlear labyrinth

 * *IRI* = http://purl.obolibrary.org/obo/UBERON_0002499
 * *Label* = cochlear labyrinth
 * *Definition* = The labyrinth is a system of fluid passages in the inner ear, including both the cochlea, which is part of the auditory system, and the vestibular system, which provides the sense of balance. It is named by analogy with the mythical maze that imprisoned the Minotaur, because of its appearance. The bony labyrinth, or osseous labyrinth, is the network of passages with bony walls lined with periosteum. The bony labyrinth is lined with the membranous labyrinth. There is a layer of perilymph between them. The three parts of the bony labyrinth are the vestibule of the ear, the semicircular canals, and the cochlea. The vestibular system is the region of the inner ear where the semicircular canals converge, close to the cochlea (the hearing organ). The vestibular system works with the visual system to keep objects in focus when the head is moving. Joint and muscle receptors also are important in maintaining balance. The brain receives, interprets, and processes the information from these systems that control our balance. [WP,unvetted]. [ [database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md) = http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cochlear_labyrinth ]

## Synonyms


## Cross-references

 * BTO:0004686
 * FMA:61259
 * MA:0002809
 * UMLS:C0931689 [ [oboInOwl#source](../../ce/oboInOwl#source.md) = ncithesaurus:Cochlear_Labyrinth ]
 * http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cochlear_labyrinth
 * http://linkedlifedata.com/resource/umls/id/C0931689
 * http://ncicb.nci.nih.gov/xml/owl/EVS/Cochlear_Labyrinth

## Subsets

 * http://purl.obolibrary.org/obo/uberon/core#pheno_slim
 * http://purl.obolibrary.org/obo/uberon/core#uberon_slim

## Superclasses

 * [organ part](../../UBERON/64/UBERON_0000064.md)
 * [ectoderm-derived structure](../../UBERON/21/UBERON_0004121.md)
 * [structure with developmental contribution from neural crest](../../UBERON/14/UBERON_0010314.md)
 * [part_of](../../BFO/50/BFO_0000050.md) some [membranous labyrinth](../../UBERON/49/UBERON_0001849.md)
 * [located_in](../../RO/25/RO_0001025.md) some [cochlea](../../UBERON/44/UBERON_0001844.md)

## Equivalencies


## Other Logical Axioms


## Other Annotations

 * *[definition](../../IAO/15/IAO_0000115.md)* = The labyrinth is a system of fluid passages in the inner ear, including both the cochlea, which is part of the auditory system, and the vestibular system, which provides the sense of balance. It is named by analogy with the mythical maze that imprisoned the Minotaur, because of its appearance. The bony labyrinth, or osseous labyrinth, is the network of passages with bony walls lined with periosteum. The bony labyrinth is lined with the membranous labyrinth. There is a layer of perilymph between them. The three parts of the bony labyrinth are the vestibule of the ear, the semicircular canals, and the cochlea. The vestibular system is the region of the inner ear where the semicircular canals converge, close to the cochlea (the hearing organ). The vestibular system works with the visual system to keep objects in focus when the head is moving. Joint and muscle receptors also are important in maintaining balance. The brain receives, interprets, and processes the information from these systems that control our balance. [WP,unvetted].
 * *[editor note](../../IAO/16/IAO_0000116.md)* = we follow the FMA in placing this in the membranous labyrinth. Notes: The labyrinth can be divided by layer or by region. Bony vs. membranous / Vestibular vs. cochlear
 * *[database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md)* = BTO:0004686
 * *[database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md)* = FMA:61259
 * *[database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md)* = MA:0002809
 * *[database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md)* = UMLS:C0931689
 * *[database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md)* = http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cochlear_labyrinth
 * *[database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md)* = http://linkedlifedata.com/resource/umls/id/C0931689
 * *[database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md)* = http://ncicb.nci.nih.gov/xml/owl/EVS/Cochlear_Labyrinth
 * *[in_subset](../../et/oboInOwl#inSubset.md)* = http://purl.obolibrary.org/obo/uberon/core#pheno_slim
 * *[in_subset](../../et/oboInOwl#inSubset.md)* = http://purl.obolibrary.org/obo/uberon/core#uberon_slim
 * *[rdf-schema#label](../../el/rdf-schema#label.md)* = cochlear labyrinth
 * *[depicted_by](../../depicted/by/depicted_by.md)* = http://upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/1/19/Gray923.png

## Usage

 * -
 * [cochlear basement membrane](../../UBERON/22/UBERON_0011922.md) == [basement membrane of epithelium](../../UBERON/69/UBERON_0005769.md) and [part_of](../../BFO/50/BFO_0000050.md) some [cochlear labyrinth](../../UBERON/99/UBERON_0002499.md)
 * [cochlear basement membrane](../../UBERON/22/UBERON_0011922.md) SubClassOf [part_of](../../BFO/50/BFO_0000050.md) some [cochlear labyrinth](../../UBERON/99/UBERON_0002499.md)
 * [cochlear duct of membranous labyrinth](../../UBERON/55/UBERON_0001855.md) SubClassOf [part_of](../../BFO/50/BFO_0000050.md) some [cochlear labyrinth](../../UBERON/99/UBERON_0002499.md)
 * [cochlear labyrinth](../../UBERON/99/UBERON_0002499.md) SubClassOf [ectoderm-derived structure](../../UBERON/21/UBERON_0004121.md)
 * [cochlear labyrinth](../../UBERON/99/UBERON_0002499.md) SubClassOf [located_in](../../RO/25/RO_0001025.md) some [cochlea](../../UBERON/44/UBERON_0001844.md)
 * [cochlear labyrinth](../../UBERON/99/UBERON_0002499.md) SubClassOf [organ part](../../UBERON/64/UBERON_0000064.md)
 * [cochlear labyrinth](../../UBERON/99/UBERON_0002499.md) SubClassOf [part_of](../../BFO/50/BFO_0000050.md) some [membranous labyrinth](../../UBERON/49/UBERON_0001849.md)
 * [cochlear labyrinth](../../UBERON/99/UBERON_0002499.md) SubClassOf [structure with developmental contribution from neural crest](../../UBERON/14/UBERON_0010314.md)
 * [helicotrema](../../UBERON/13/UBERON_0008813.md) SubClassOf [part_of](../../BFO/50/BFO_0000050.md) some [cochlear labyrinth](../../UBERON/99/UBERON_0002499.md)

## External Comments

