
## Class : mucosal type mast cell

 * *IRI* = http://purl.obolibrary.org/obo/CL_0000485
 * *Label* = mucosal type mast cell
 * *Definition* = Mast cell subtype that contains only the serine protease trypase in its granules. These cells are primarily found in mucosal tissue, such as intestinal mucosa and alveoli. They depend upon T-cells for development of phenotype. [ [database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md) = GOC:add, [database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md) = GOC:dsd, [database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md) = PMID:19923473, [database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md) = PMID:9354811 ]
 * *Comment* = They are CD88-negative. The cytoplasmic granules contain low levels of histamine and high levels of chondroitin sulfate (mouse) or major neutral proteases and tryptase (humans). Additionally, they can produce leukotrienes (LTC4), IL-5, IL-6, and low levels of IL-4. They are reportedly very heterogeneous depending upon location and can convert to the MC(T) phenotype.

## Synonyms

 * MC(T)
 * MCT
 * T mast cells

## Cross-references


## Subsets


## Superclasses

 * [mast cell](../../CL/97/CL_0000097.md)
 * [part_of](../../BFO/50/BFO_0000050.md) some [mucosa-associated lymphoid tissue](../../UBERON/61/UBERON_0001961.md)
 * [capable_of](../../RO/15/RO_0002215.md) some [GO_0002540](../../GO/40/GO_0002540.md)

## Equivalencies


## Other Logical Axioms


## Other Annotations

 * *[definition](../../IAO/15/IAO_0000115.md)* = Mast cell subtype that contains only the serine protease trypase in its granules. These cells are primarily found in mucosal tissue, such as intestinal mucosa and alveoli. They depend upon T-cells for development of phenotype.
 * *[has_exact_synonym](../../ym/oboInOwl#hasExactSynonym.md)* = MC(T)
 * *[has_exact_synonym](../../ym/oboInOwl#hasExactSynonym.md)* = MCT
 * *[has_exact_synonym](../../ym/oboInOwl#hasExactSynonym.md)* = T mast cells
 * *[rdf-schema#comment](../../nt/rdf-schema#comment.md)* = They are CD88-negative. The cytoplasmic granules contain low levels of histamine and high levels of chondroitin sulfate (mouse) or major neutral proteases and tryptase (humans). Additionally, they can produce leukotrienes (LTC4), IL-5, IL-6, and low levels of IL-4. They are reportedly very heterogeneous depending upon location and can convert to the MC(T) phenotype.
 * *[rdf-schema#label](../../el/rdf-schema#label.md)* = mucosal type mast cell

## Usage

 * -
 * [mucosal type mast cell](../../CL/85/CL_0000485.md) SubClassOf [capable_of](../../RO/15/RO_0002215.md) some [GO_0002540](../../GO/40/GO_0002540.md)
 * [mucosal type mast cell](../../CL/85/CL_0000485.md) SubClassOf [mast cell](../../CL/97/CL_0000097.md)
 * [mucosal type mast cell](../../CL/85/CL_0000485.md) SubClassOf [part_of](../../BFO/50/BFO_0000050.md) some [mucosa-associated lymphoid tissue](../../UBERON/61/UBERON_0001961.md)

## External Comments

