
## Class : synovial membrane of synovial tendon sheath

 * *IRI* = http://purl.obolibrary.org/obo/UBERON_0011233
 * *Label* = synovial membrane of synovial tendon sheath
 * *Definition* = Synovial sac which surrounds parts of one or more tendons. Examples: synovial tendon sheath of manual digit 2, radial bursa. [ [database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md) = FMA:45087, [database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md) = http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Synovial_sheath ]
 * *Comment* = Alternate def: A synovial sheath is a layer of a tendon sheath containing tendons in the hand and foot. They lie internal to the fibrous tendon sheaths. An example is the common synovial sheath for the flexor tendons. [Wikipedia:Synovial_sheath]

## Synonyms

 * synovium [ [database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md) = BTO:0001823 ]

## Cross-references

 * BTO:0001823
 * FMA:40878
 * http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Synovial_sheath

## Subsets


## Superclasses

 * [layer of synovial tissue](../../UBERON/16/UBERON_0007616.md)
 * [bounding layer of](../../RO/07/RO_0002007.md) some [tendon sheath](../../UBERON/04/UBERON_0000304.md)

## Equivalencies

 * [bounding layer of](../../RO/07/RO_0002007.md) some [tendon sheath](../../UBERON/04/UBERON_0000304.md) and [layer of synovial tissue](../../UBERON/16/UBERON_0007616.md)

## Other Logical Axioms


## Other Annotations

 * *[definition](../../IAO/15/IAO_0000115.md)* = Synovial sac which surrounds parts of one or more tendons. Examples: synovial tendon sheath of manual digit 2, radial bursa.
 * *[has_broad_synonym](../../ym/oboInOwl#hasBroadSynonym.md)* = synovium
 * *[database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md)* = BTO:0001823
 * *[database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md)* = FMA:40878
 * *[database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md)* = http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Synovial_sheath
 * *[rdf-schema#comment](../../nt/rdf-schema#comment.md)* = Alternate def: A synovial sheath is a layer of a tendon sheath containing tendons in the hand and foot. They lie internal to the fibrous tendon sheaths. An example is the common synovial sheath for the flexor tendons. [Wikipedia:Synovial_sheath]
 * *[rdf-schema#label](../../el/rdf-schema#label.md)* = synovial membrane of synovial tendon sheath

## Usage

 * -
 * [synovial membrane of synovial tendon sheath](../../UBERON/33/UBERON_0011233.md) == [bounding layer of](../../RO/07/RO_0002007.md) some [tendon sheath](../../UBERON/04/UBERON_0000304.md) and [layer of synovial tissue](../../UBERON/16/UBERON_0007616.md)
 * [synovial membrane of synovial tendon sheath](../../UBERON/33/UBERON_0011233.md) SubClassOf [bounding layer of](../../RO/07/RO_0002007.md) some [tendon sheath](../../UBERON/04/UBERON_0000304.md)
 * [synovial membrane of synovial tendon sheath](../../UBERON/33/UBERON_0011233.md) SubClassOf [layer of synovial tissue](../../UBERON/16/UBERON_0007616.md)
 * [tendon sheath](../../UBERON/04/UBERON_0000304.md) SubClassOf [has_part](../../BFO/51/BFO_0000051.md) some [synovial membrane of synovial tendon sheath](../../UBERON/33/UBERON_0011233.md)

## External Comments

