
## Class : supraorbital gland

 * *IRI* = http://purl.obolibrary.org/obo/UBERON_0013233
 * *Label* = supraorbital gland
 * *Definition* = A lateral nasal gland that removes sodium chloride from the bloodstream. [ [database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md) = http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Supraorbital_gland ]

## Synonyms


## Cross-references

 * http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Supraorbital_gland

## Subsets


## Superclasses

 * [gland of nasal mucosa](../../UBERON/78/UBERON_0012278.md)
 * [only in taxon](../../RO/60/RO_0002160.md) some [Aves](../../NCBITaxon/82/NCBITaxon_8782.md)

## Equivalencies


## Other Logical Axioms


## Other Annotations

 * *[definition](../../IAO/15/IAO_0000115.md)* = A lateral nasal gland that removes sodium chloride from the bloodstream.
 * *[function_notes](../../UBPROP/09/UBPROP_0000009.md)* = The gland's function is similar to that of the kidneys, though it is much more efficient at removing salt, allowing Penguins to survive without access to fresh water. Contrary to popular belief, the gland does not directly convert saltwater to freshwater. The term supraorbital refers to the area just above the eye socket (which is known as the orbit of the eye. ) Living in saltwater environments would naturally pose a large problem for penguins because the ingestion of saltwater would be detrimental to a penguin's health. Although penguins do not directly drink water, it is taken in when they engulf prey. As a result, saltwater enters their system and must be effectively excreted. The supraorbital gland has thus enabled the penguins' survival in such environments due to its water-filtering capability. The gland is located just above the eyes and surrounds a capillary in the head. This capillary constantly strains out the salt in the saltwater that a penguin takes in. Since the byproduct of the gland has roughly five times as much salt as would normally be found in the animal's fluids, the supraorbital gland is highly efficient. The penguin excretes the salt byproduct as a brine through its bill. Often, the fluid drips out, and this gives the appearance of a runny nose. However, the fluid may also be sneezed out. In the absence of saltwater, caused by captivity, the supraorbital gland will lie dormant as it has no other purpose. Having a dormant supraorbital gland does not negatively affect the health of a penguin
 * *[database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md)* = http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Supraorbital_gland
 * *[rdf-schema#label](../../el/rdf-schema#label.md)* = supraorbital gland

## Usage

 * -
 * [supraorbital gland](../../UBERON/33/UBERON_0013233.md) SubClassOf [gland of nasal mucosa](../../UBERON/78/UBERON_0012278.md)
 * [supraorbital gland](../../UBERON/33/UBERON_0013233.md) SubClassOf [only in taxon](../../RO/60/RO_0002160.md) some [Aves](../../NCBITaxon/82/NCBITaxon_8782.md)

## External Comments

