
## Class : intertrochanteric crest

 * *IRI* = http://purl.obolibrary.org/obo/UBERON_0013633
 * *Label* = intertrochanteric crest
 * *Definition* = The intertrochanteric crest is a bony ridge located on the posterior side of the head of the femur, stretching obliquely downward and medially from the summit of the greater trochanter to the lesser trochanter. Together with the intertrochanteric line on the anterior side of the head, the crest mark the transition between of the neck of femur into the shaft of femur. An elevation between the middle and proximal third of the crest is known as the quadrate tubercle. The upper half of the crest forms the posterior border of the greater trochanter. The distal capsular attachment on the femur follows the shape of the irregular rim between the head and the neck. As a consequence, the capsule of the hip joint attaches in the region of the intertrochanteric line on the anterior side, but a finger away from the intertrochanteric crest on the posterior side of the head. [ [database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md) = http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Intertrochanteric_crest ]

## Synonyms


## Cross-references

 * FMA:75100
 * http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Intertrochanteric_crest

## Subsets


## Superclasses

 * [anatomical line](../../UBERON/00/UBERON_0006800.md)
 * [part_of](../../BFO/50/BFO_0000050.md) some [proximal epiphysis of femur](../../UBERON/12/UBERON_0004412.md)
 * [connects](../../RO/76/RO_0002176.md) some [greater trochanter](../../UBERON/03/UBERON_0002503.md)
 * [connects](../../RO/76/RO_0002176.md) some [lesser trochanter](../../UBERON/04/UBERON_0002504.md)

## Equivalencies


## Other Logical Axioms


## Other Annotations

 * *[definition](../../IAO/15/IAO_0000115.md)* = The intertrochanteric crest is a bony ridge located on the posterior side of the head of the femur, stretching obliquely downward and medially from the summit of the greater trochanter to the lesser trochanter. Together with the intertrochanteric line on the anterior side of the head, the crest mark the transition between of the neck of femur into the shaft of femur. An elevation between the middle and proximal third of the crest is known as the quadrate tubercle. The upper half of the crest forms the posterior border of the greater trochanter. The distal capsular attachment on the femur follows the shape of the irregular rim between the head and the neck. As a consequence, the capsule of the hip joint attaches in the region of the intertrochanteric line on the anterior side, but a finger away from the intertrochanteric crest on the posterior side of the head.
 * *[database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md)* = FMA:75100
 * *[database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md)* = http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Intertrochanteric_crest
 * *[rdf-schema#label](../../el/rdf-schema#label.md)* = intertrochanteric crest

## Usage

 * -
 * [intertrochanteric crest](../../UBERON/33/UBERON_0013633.md) SubClassOf [anatomical line](../../UBERON/00/UBERON_0006800.md)
 * [intertrochanteric crest](../../UBERON/33/UBERON_0013633.md) SubClassOf [connects](../../RO/76/RO_0002176.md) some [greater trochanter](../../UBERON/03/UBERON_0002503.md)
 * [intertrochanteric crest](../../UBERON/33/UBERON_0013633.md) SubClassOf [connects](../../RO/76/RO_0002176.md) some [lesser trochanter](../../UBERON/04/UBERON_0002504.md)
 * [intertrochanteric crest](../../UBERON/33/UBERON_0013633.md) SubClassOf [part_of](../../BFO/50/BFO_0000050.md) some [proximal epiphysis of femur](../../UBERON/12/UBERON_0004412.md)

## External Comments

