
## Class : cartilage tissue

 * *IRI* = http://purl.obolibrary.org/obo/UBERON_0002418
 * *Label* = cartilage tissue
 * *Definition* = Skeletal tissue that is avascular, rich in glycosaminoglycans (GAGs) and typically includes chondrocytes within isolated lacunae. Cartilage tissue is deposited by chondroblasts. [[database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md) =  + GO_REF:0000034[database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md) =  + PSPUB:0000170[database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md) =  + VSAO:0000040[database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md) =  + http://dx.plos.org/10.1371/journal.pone.0051070[database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md) =  + http://sourceforge.net/tracker/?func=detail&atid=2257941&aid=3396584&group_id=76834]
 * *Comment* = Previous: "A portion of connective tissue dominated by extracellular matrix containing collagen type II and large amounts of proteoglycan, particularly chondroitin sulfate[GO]. Regular connective tissue, which consists of chondrocytes and related cells, the intercellular matrix of which is chondrified. Examples: hyaline cartilage, fibrocartilage, elastic cartilage[FMA]. an avascular supporting and articular skeletal tissue. It also functions as the primary endoskeletal support in vertebrate embryos. Cartilage is deposited by and is composed of chondroblasts and chondrocytes separated by an extracellular matrix, which may or may not mineralize depending on cartilage type, age, or taxon[Hall and Witten]." See also FMA:71500 Set of cartilages, FMA:55107 Cartilage organ, FMA:12264 Articular cartilage. // elements made from cartilage, cartilage-like, or chondroid tissues evolved in invertebrates[H&W]

## Synonyms

 * cartilage tissue [[database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md) =  + FMA:37377]
 * cartilaginous tissue
 * chondrogenic tissue [[database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md) =  + VSAO:0000040]
 * cartilage
 * cartilages [[database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md) =  + VHOG:0001207]

## Cross-references

 * AAO:0000060
 * AEO:0000087
 * BTO:0000206
 * EFO:0000949
 * EHDAA2:0003087
 * EMAPA:32730
 * EV:0100141
 * FMA:37377
 * GAID:99
 * MA:0000104
 * MAT:0000189
 * MESH:A02.165
 * MIAA:0000189
 * OpenCyc:Mx4rvVjeOZwpEbGdrcN5Y29ycA
 * SCTID:309312004
 * TAO:0001501
 * UMLS:C0007301 [[oboInOwl#source](../../ce/oboInOwl#source.md) =  + ncithesaurus:Cartilage]
 * VHOG:0001207
 * VSAO:0000040
 * Wikipedia:Cartilage
 * XAO:0000170
 * ZFA:0005622
 * galen:Cartilage
 * http://upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/e/ee/Hypertrophic_Zone_of_Epiphyseal_Plate.jpg
 * ncithesaurus:Cartilage
 * ncithesaurus:Cartilagenous_Tissue

## Subsets

 * http://purl.obolibrary.org/obo/uberon/core#efo_slim
 * http://purl.obolibrary.org/obo/uberon/core#uberon_slim
 * http://purl.obolibrary.org/obo/uberon/core#vertebrate_core

## Superclasses

 * [skeletal tissue](../../UBERON/55/UBERON_0004755.md)
 * [part_of](../../BFO/50/BFO_0000050.md) some [musculoskeletal system](../../UBERON/04/UBERON_0002204.md)
 * [has_part](../../BFO/51/BFO_0000051.md) some [chondrocyte](../../CL/38/CL_0000138.md)

## Equivalencies


## Other Logical Axioms


## Other Annotations

 * *[external_definition](../../UBPROP/01/UBPROP_0000001.md)* = A type of dense connective tissue. It is composed of cells called chondrocytes which are dispersed in a firm gel-like ground substance, called the matrix. Cartilage is avascular (contains no blood vessels) and nutrients are diffused through the matrix. Cartilage is found in the joints, the rib cage, the ear, the nose, in the throat and between intervertebral disks. It makes up virtually the entire skeleton in chondrichthyes.[AAO]
 * *[external_definition](../../UBPROP/01/UBPROP_0000001.md)* = Portion of tissue which is connective tissue composed of collagen and/or elastin fibers and chondrocytes. Cartilage is avascular and provides both skeletal functions and a framework upon which bone is deposited.[TAO]
 * *[external_definition](../../UBPROP/01/UBPROP_0000001.md)* = Skeletal tissue that is avascular, rich in glycosaminoglycans (GAGs) and typically includes chondrocytes within isolated lacunae. Cartilage tissue is deposited by chondroblasts.[VSAO]
 * *[axiom_lost_from_external_ontology](../../UBPROP/02/UBPROP_0000002.md)* = relationship loss: subclass specialized connective tissue (AAO:0000571)[AAO]
 * *[homology_notes](../../UBPROP/03/UBPROP_0000003.md)* = Phylogenetic analysis suggests that cartilage arose independently in cnidarians, hemichordates, vertebrates, arthropods, annelids, brachiopods, and molluscs - or a common ancestor of brachiopods and molluscs (...). Analyses of cartilage as a tissue and of the development of invertebrate cartilages are consistent with homology between invertebrate and vertebrate cartilage. From the discussion above, it will be clear that understanding genetic changes underlying cartilage evolution is key to determining whether the multiple origins of cartilage represent parallel evolution.[well established][VHOG]
 * *[homologous_in](../../core#homologous/in/core#homologous_in.md)* = http://purl.obolibrary.org/obo/NCBITaxon_7742
 * *[has_obo_namespace](../../ce/oboInOwl#hasOBONamespace.md)* = uberon
 * *[oboInOwl#id](../../id/oboInOwl#id.md)* = UBERON:0002418

## External Comments

