
## Class : interthalamic adhesion

 * *IRI* = http://purl.obolibrary.org/obo/UBERON_0006681
 * *Label* = interthalamic adhesion
 * *Definition* = The medial surface of the thalamus constitutes the upper part of the lateral wall of the third ventricle, and is connected to the corresponding surface of the opposite thalamus by a flattened gray band, the Interthalamic adhesion (massa intermedia, middle commissure, gray commissure). In non-human mammals it is a large structure. In humans this mass averages about 1 cm in length in its antero-posterior diameter. It sometimes consists of two parts and occasionally is absent. The interthalamic adhesion is found in 70-80% of humans. It is present more often in females and larger than in males by an average of 53 percent. . When absent in development, no noticeable deficit has been observed. It contains nerve cells and nerve fibers; a few of the latter may cross the middle line, but most of them pass toward the middle line and then curve lateralward on the same side. [ [database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md) = http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Interthalamic_adhesion,Wikipedia:Interthalamic_adhesion ]

## Synonyms

 * Interthalamic connection [ [database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md) = FMA:74869 ]
 * Middle commissure [ [database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md) = FMA:74869 ]

## Cross-references

 * BAMS:InTrM
 * BAMS:itha
 * EMAPA:18546
 * FMA:74869
 * http://braininfo.rprc.washington.edu/centraldirectory.aspx?ID=301
 * http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Interthalamic_adhesion

## Subsets


## Superclasses

 * [nervous system commissure](../../UBERON/20/UBERON_0001020.md)

## Equivalencies


## Other Logical Axioms


## Other Annotations

 * *[definition](../../IAO/15/IAO_0000115.md)* = The medial surface of the thalamus constitutes the upper part of the lateral wall of the third ventricle, and is connected to the corresponding surface of the opposite thalamus by a flattened gray band, the Interthalamic adhesion (massa intermedia, middle commissure, gray commissure). In non-human mammals it is a large structure. In humans this mass averages about 1 cm in length in its antero-posterior diameter. It sometimes consists of two parts and occasionally is absent. The interthalamic adhesion is found in 70-80% of humans. It is present more often in females and larger than in males by an average of 53 percent. . When absent in development, no noticeable deficit has been observed. It contains nerve cells and nerve fibers; a few of the latter may cross the middle line, but most of them pass toward the middle line and then curve lateralward on the same side.
 * *[database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md)* = BAMS:InTrM
 * *[database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md)* = BAMS:itha
 * *[database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md)* = EMAPA:18546
 * *[database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md)* = FMA:74869
 * *[database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md)* = http://braininfo.rprc.washington.edu/centraldirectory.aspx?ID=301
 * *[database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md)* = http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Interthalamic_adhesion
 * *[has_exact_synonym](../../ym/oboInOwl#hasExactSynonym.md)* = Interthalamic connection
 * *[has_exact_synonym](../../ym/oboInOwl#hasExactSynonym.md)* = Middle commissure
 * *[rdf-schema#label](../../el/rdf-schema#label.md)* = interthalamic adhesion

## Usage

 * -
 * [interthalamic adhesion](../../UBERON/81/UBERON_0006681.md) SubClassOf [nervous system commissure](../../UBERON/20/UBERON_0001020.md)

## External Comments

