
## Class : posterior lateral line system

 * *IRI* = http://purl.obolibrary.org/obo/UBERON_2001471
 * *Label* = posterior lateral line system
 * *Definition* = The posterior lateral line system develops from cranial ectodermal placodes, situated behind the ear, that give rise to both the neuromasts and the posterior lateral line sensory nerves that innervate the neuromasts. The posterior lateral line system consists of small sensory patches (neuromasts) located superficially on the skin or just under the skin in fluid-filled canals on the head of all fishes and most amphibians. The neuromasts are innervated by several lateral line nerves, which project primarily to the hindbrain. The posterior mechanosensory lateral line system is stimulated by local water displacements and vibrations, and detects propulsion of the fish through the water, as well as facilitating shoaling, prey capture, and predator and obstacle avoidance. [ [database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md) = ZFIN:curator ]

## Synonyms


## Cross-references

 * ZFA:0001471

## Subsets


## Superclasses

 * [lateral line system](../../UBERON/40/UBERON_0002540.md)

## Equivalencies


## Other Logical Axioms


## Other Annotations

 * *[definition](../../IAO/15/IAO_0000115.md)* = The posterior lateral line system develops from cranial ectodermal placodes, situated behind the ear, that give rise to both the neuromasts and the posterior lateral line sensory nerves that innervate the neuromasts. The posterior lateral line system consists of small sensory patches (neuromasts) located superficially on the skin or just under the skin in fluid-filled canals on the head of all fishes and most amphibians. The neuromasts are innervated by several lateral line nerves, which project primarily to the hindbrain. The posterior mechanosensory lateral line system is stimulated by local water displacements and vibrations, and detects propulsion of the fish through the water, as well as facilitating shoaling, prey capture, and predator and obstacle avoidance.
 * *[core#provenance_notes](../../core#provenance/es/core#provenance_notes.md)* = This class was sourced from an external ontology (teleost_anatomy). Its definitions, naming conventions and relationships may need to be checked for compatibility with uberon
 * *[oboInOwl#created_by](../../oboInOwl#created/by/oboInOwl#created_by.md)* = teleost_anatomy_curators
 * *[database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md)* = ZFA:0001471
 * *[rdf-schema#label](../../el/rdf-schema#label.md)* = posterior lateral line system

## Usage

 * -
 * [posterior lateral line nerve](../../UBERON/75/UBERON_2000175.md) SubClassOf [part_of](../../BFO/50/BFO_0000050.md) some [posterior lateral line system](../../UBERON/71/UBERON_2001471.md)
 * [posterior lateral line placode](../../UBERON/56/UBERON_2001156.md) SubClassOf [part_of](../../BFO/50/BFO_0000050.md) some [posterior lateral line system](../../UBERON/71/UBERON_2001471.md)
 * [posterior lateral line primordium](../../UBERON/57/UBERON_2001157.md) SubClassOf [part_of](../../BFO/50/BFO_0000050.md) some [posterior lateral line system](../../UBERON/71/UBERON_2001471.md)
 * [posterior lateral line system](../../UBERON/71/UBERON_2001471.md) SubClassOf [lateral line system](../../UBERON/40/UBERON_0002540.md)

## External Comments

