
## Class : cotylephore

 * *IRI* = http://purl.obolibrary.org/obo/UBERON_2002114
 * *Label* = cotylephore
 * *Definition* = Multi-tissue structure that is a transient outgrowth of tissue on skin brooding fish that acts as an attachment site for embryos. [ [database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md) = TAO:wd ]
 * *Comment* = Definition reference: James Wetzel, John P. Wourms and John Friel 1997. Comparative morphology of cotylephores in Platystacus and Solenostomus: modifications of the integument for egg attachment in skin-brooding fishes. Environmental Biology of Fishes. Volume 50, Number 1 / September, 1997. Pages 13 - 25.

## Synonyms

 * cotylephores [ [database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md) = TAO:0002114, [has_synonym_type](../../pe/oboInOwl#hasSynonymType.md) = http://purl.obolibrary.org/obo/core#PLURAL ]

## Cross-references


## Subsets


## Superclasses

 * [multi-tissue structure](../../UBERON/81/UBERON_0000481.md)
 * [reproductive structure](../../UBERON/56/UBERON_0005156.md)
 * [part_of](../../BFO/50/BFO_0000050.md) some [reproductive system](../../UBERON/90/UBERON_0000990.md)

## Equivalencies


## Other Logical Axioms


## Other Annotations

 * *[definition](../../IAO/15/IAO_0000115.md)* = Multi-tissue structure that is a transient outgrowth of tissue on skin brooding fish that acts as an attachment site for embryos.
 * *[core#provenance_notes](../../core#provenance/es/core#provenance_notes.md)* = This class was sourced from an external ontology (teleost_anatomy). Its definitions, naming conventions and relationships may need to be checked for compatibility with uberon
 * *[oboInOwl#created_by](../../oboInOwl#created/by/oboInOwl#created_by.md)* = teleost_anatomy_curators
 * *[has_exact_synonym](../../ym/oboInOwl#hasExactSynonym.md)* = cotylephores
 * *[rdf-schema#comment](../../nt/rdf-schema#comment.md)* = Definition reference: James Wetzel, John P. Wourms and John Friel 1997. Comparative morphology of cotylephores in Platystacus and Solenostomus: modifications of the integument for egg attachment in skin-brooding fishes. Environmental Biology of Fishes. Volume 50, Number 1 / September, 1997. Pages 13 - 25.
 * *[rdf-schema#label](../../el/rdf-schema#label.md)* = cotylephore

## Usage

 * -
 * [cotylephore](../../UBERON/14/UBERON_2002114.md) SubClassOf [multi-tissue structure](../../UBERON/81/UBERON_0000481.md)
 * [cotylephore](../../UBERON/14/UBERON_2002114.md) SubClassOf [part_of](../../BFO/50/BFO_0000050.md) some [reproductive system](../../UBERON/90/UBERON_0000990.md)
 * [cotylephore](../../UBERON/14/UBERON_2002114.md) SubClassOf [reproductive structure](../../UBERON/56/UBERON_0005156.md)

## External Comments

