
## Class : Gr1-high classical monocyte

 * *IRI* = http://purl.obolibrary.org/obo/CL_0002395
 * *Label* = Gr1-high classical monocyte
 * *Definition* = A resident monocyte that is Gr-1 high, CD43-negative, CX3CR1-negative, CD115-positive, and B220-negative. [ [database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md) = GOC:tfm, [database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md) = PMID:20628149, [database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md) = PMID:8890901, [database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md) = http://www.immgen.org/index_content.html ]
 * *Comment* = Markers are associated with mice. The Gr epitope is used to describe this cell type is found on both Ly6c and Ly6g. However, its the Ly6c that is considered the specific marker, and thus used in the cross-product.

## Synonyms


## Cross-references


## Subsets


## Superclasses

 * [classical monocyte](../../CL/60/CL_0000860.md)
 * [CD115-positive monocyte](../../CL/22/CL_0001022.md)

## Equivalencies


## Other Logical Axioms


## Other Annotations

 * *[definition](../../IAO/15/IAO_0000115.md)* = A resident monocyte that is Gr-1 high, CD43-negative, CX3CR1-negative, CD115-positive, and B220-negative.
 * *[oboInOwl#created_by](../../oboInOwl#created/by/oboInOwl#created_by.md)* = tmeehan
 * *[oboInOwl#creation_date](../../oboInOwl#creation/te/oboInOwl#creation_date.md)* = 2010-10-04T11:26:18Z
 * *[rdf-schema#comment](../../nt/rdf-schema#comment.md)* = Markers are associated with mice. The Gr epitope is used to describe this cell type is found on both Ly6c and Ly6g. However, its the Ly6c that is considered the specific marker, and thus used in the cross-product.
 * *[rdf-schema#label](../../el/rdf-schema#label.md)* = Gr1-high classical monocyte

## Usage

 * -
 * [Gr1-high classical monocyte](../../CL/95/CL_0002395.md) SubClassOf [CD115-positive monocyte](../../CL/22/CL_0001022.md)
 * [Gr1-high classical monocyte](../../CL/95/CL_0002395.md) SubClassOf [classical monocyte](../../CL/60/CL_0000860.md)
 * [Gr1-positive, CD43-positive monocyte](../../CL/98/CL_0002398.md) SubClassOf [develops_from](../../RO/02/RO_0002202.md) some [Gr1-high classical monocyte](../../CL/95/CL_0002395.md)
 * [MHC-II-negative classical monocyte](../../CL/69/CL_0002469.md) SubClassOf [Gr1-high classical monocyte](../../CL/95/CL_0002395.md)
 * [MHC-II-positive classical monocyte](../../CL/70/CL_0002470.md) SubClassOf [Gr1-high classical monocyte](../../CL/95/CL_0002395.md)

## External Comments

