
## Class : costotransverse joint

 * *IRI* = http://purl.obolibrary.org/obo/UBERON_0011967
 * *Label* = costotransverse joint
 * *Definition* = The facet of the tubercle of the rib forms an articulation with the adjacent transverse process of a thoracic vertebra. This is a plane type synovial joint called the costotransverse joint. This articulation is present in all but the eleventh and twelfth ribs. Ribs 1 to 10 have two joints in close proximity posteriorly; the costovertebral joints and the costotranseverse joints. This arrangement restrains the motion of the ribs allowing them to work in a parallel fashion during breathing. If a typical rib had only one joint posteriorly the resultant swivel action would allow a rib to be non-parallel with respect to the neighboring ribs making for a very inefficient respiratory mechanism. The ventral rami innervate the costotransverse joints. Therefore, therapeutic medial branch blocks are ineffectual. The ligaments of the joint are: Articular capsule Posterior costotransverse Anterior costotransverse Ligament of the neck of the rib Ligament of the tubercle of the rib [[database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md) =  + Wikipedia:Costotransverse_joint]

## Synonyms

 * costotransverse articulation [[database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md) =  + Wikipedia:Costotransverse_joint]

## Cross-references

 * FMA:7952
 * SCTID:263328007
 * Wikipedia:Costotransverse_joint

## Subsets


## Superclasses

 * [costovertebral joint](../../UBERON/92/UBERON_0002292.md)
 * [mesoderm-derived structure](../../UBERON/20/UBERON_0004120.md)
 * [part_of](../../BFO/50/BFO_0000050.md) some [thoracic rib cage](../../UBERON/52/UBERON_0003252.md)

## Equivalencies


## Other Logical Axioms


## Other Annotations

 * *[has_obo_namespace](../../ce/oboInOwl#hasOBONamespace.md)* = uberon
 * *[oboInOwl#id](../../id/oboInOwl#id.md)* = UBERON:0011967

## External Comments

