
## Class : shoulder

 * *IRI* = http://purl.obolibrary.org/obo/UBERON_0001467
 * *Label* = shoulder
 * *Definition* = In human anatomy, the shoulder joint comprises the part of the body where the humerus attaches to the scapula. The shoulder refers to the group of structures in the region of the joint. It is made up of three bones: the clavicle (collarbone), the scapula (shoulder blade), and the humerus (upper arm bone) as well as associated muscles, ligaments and tendons. The articulations between the bones of the shoulder make up the shoulder joints. There are two kinds of cartilage in the joint. The first type is the white cartilage on the ends of the bones (called articular cartilage) which allows the bones to glide and move on each other. When this type of cartilage starts to wear out (a process called arthritis), the joint becomes painful and stiff. The labrum is a second kind of cartilage in the shoulder which is distinctly different from the articular cartilage. This cartilage is more fibrous or rigid than the cartilage on the ends of the ball and socket. Also, this cartilage is also found only around the socket where it is attached. The shoulder must be flexible for the wide range of motion required in the arms and hands and also strong enough to allow for actions such as lifting, pushing and pulling. The compromise between these two functions results in a large number of shoulder problems not faced by other joints such as the hip. [WP,unvetted]. [[database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md) =  + Wikipedia:Shoulder]
 * *Comment* = AO notes: In FMA, the shoulder is part of the pectoral girdle region. in MA, shoulder structures like shoulder joints, bones, nerves etc are part of the shoulder and the forelimb. E.g. humerus is a shoulder bone

## Synonyms

 * shoulder region
 * articulatio humeri [[database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md) =  + Wikipedia:Shoulder[has_synonym_type](../../pe/oboInOwl#hasSynonymType.md) =  + http://purl.obolibrary.org/obo/uberon/core#LATIN]

## Cross-references

 * CALOHA:TS-2229
 * EFO:0003068
 * EHDAA2:0001834
 * EHDAA:4180
 * EHDAA:6228
 * EMAPA:17421
 * FMA:25202
 * GAID:60
 * MA:0000038
 * MESH:A01.378.800.750
 * OpenCyc:Mx4rvViCM5wpEbGdrcN5Y29ycA
 * SCTID:361103004
 * UMLS:C0037004 [[oboInOwl#source](../../ce/oboInOwl#source.md) =  + ncithesaurus:Shoulder]
 * VHOG:0000342
 * Wikipedia:Shoulder
 * galen:Shoulder
 * http://upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/9/90/Shoulderjoint.PNG
 * http://upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/9/90/Shoulderjoint.PNG/200px-Shoulderjoint.PNG
 * ncithesaurus:Shoulder

## Subsets

 * http://purl.obolibrary.org/obo/uberon/core#efo_slim
 * http://purl.obolibrary.org/obo/uberon/core#uberon_slim

## Superclasses

 * [organism subdivision](../../UBERON/75/UBERON_0000475.md)
 * [part_of](../../BFO/50/BFO_0000050.md) some [pectoral complex](../../UBERON/08/UBERON_0010708.md)
 * [has_part](../../BFO/51/BFO_0000051.md) some ObjectSomeValuesFrom(<http://purl.obolibrary.org/obo/BFO_0000050> <http://purl.obolibrary.org/obo/UBERON_0001421>)

## Equivalencies


## Other Logical Axioms


## Other Annotations

 * *[homology_notes](../../UBPROP/03/UBPROP_0000003.md)* =  (...) endochondral elements of the early tetrapod shoulder develop from two centers of ossification, giving rise to a scapula and a 'coracoid'.[well established][VHOG]
 * *[homologous_in](../../core#homologous/in/core#homologous_in.md)* = http://purl.obolibrary.org/obo/NCBITaxon_7742
 * *[has_obo_namespace](../../ce/oboInOwl#hasOBONamespace.md)* = uberon
 * *[oboInOwl#id](../../id/oboInOwl#id.md)* = UBERON:0001467

## External Comments

