
## Class : notochordal plate

 * *IRI* = http://purl.obolibrary.org/obo/UBERON_0006267
 * *Label* = notochordal plate
 * *Definition* = The notochordal plate is the dorsal part of the notochordal process when the ventral portion breaks down. It is continuous laterally with the endoderm that composes the roof of the primitive foregut and is in contact dorsally with the neural tube. The folding off of the notochordal plate gives rise to the notochord. [ [database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md) = VHOG:0001212 ]

## Synonyms


## Cross-references

 * EHDAA2:0001278
 * EHDAA:264
 * EMAPA:16101
 * UMLS:C1518429 [ [oboInOwl#source](../../ce/oboInOwl#source.md) = ncithesaurus:Notochordal_Plate ]
 * VHOG:0001212
 * http://linkedlifedata.com/resource/umls/id/C1518429
 * http://ncicb.nci.nih.gov/xml/owl/EVS/Notochordal_Plate

## Subsets

 * http://purl.obolibrary.org/obo/uberon/core#emapa_ehdaa2

## Superclasses

 * [unilaminar epithelium](../../UBERON/90/UBERON_0000490.md)
 * [embryonic tissue](../../UBERON/91/UBERON_0005291.md)
 * [ecto-epithelium](../../UBERON/71/UBERON_0010371.md)
 * [part_of](../../BFO/50/BFO_0000050.md) some [embryo](../../UBERON/22/UBERON_0000922.md)
 * [develops_from](../../RO/02/RO_0002202.md) some [notochordal process](../../UBERON/68/UBERON_0006268.md)

## Equivalencies


## Other Logical Axioms


## Other Annotations

 * *[definition](../../IAO/15/IAO_0000115.md)* = The notochordal plate is the dorsal part of the notochordal process when the ventral portion breaks down. It is continuous laterally with the endoderm that composes the roof of the primitive foregut and is in contact dorsally with the neural tube. The folding off of the notochordal plate gives rise to the notochord.
 * *[editor note](../../IAO/16/IAO_0000116.md)* = TODO - check ordering; awaiting confirmation from JB
 * *[external_definition](../../UBPROP/01/UBPROP_0000001.md)* = The notochordal plate is the dorsal part of the notochordal process when the ventral portion breaks down. It is continuous laterally with the endoderm that composes the roof of the primitive foregut and is in contact dorsally with the neural tube. The folding off of the notochordal plate gives rise to the notochord. [Carson_JL, Dehart_DB, Developmental_Dynamics_(1994)_201:_260-278, Gesteland_K_and_Schoenwolf_GC, Inagaki_T, Morphogenesis_of_the_murine_node_and_notochordal_plate, The_prechordal_plate, Vrablic_T, see_Mueller_F_and_O'Rahilly_R, the_rostral_end_of_the_notochord_and_nearby_median_features_in_staged_human_embryos._Cells_Tissues_Organs_(2003)_173:_1-20_and_Sulik_K][VHOG]
 * *[database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md)* = EHDAA2:0001278
 * *[database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md)* = EHDAA:264
 * *[database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md)* = EMAPA:16101
 * *[database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md)* = UMLS:C1518429
 * *[database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md)* = VHOG:0001212
 * *[database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md)* = http://linkedlifedata.com/resource/umls/id/C1518429
 * *[database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md)* = http://ncicb.nci.nih.gov/xml/owl/EVS/Notochordal_Plate
 * *[in_subset](../../et/oboInOwl#inSubset.md)* = http://purl.obolibrary.org/obo/uberon/core#emapa_ehdaa2
 * *[rdf-schema#label](../../el/rdf-schema#label.md)* = notochordal plate

## Usage

 * -
 * [notochord](../../UBERON/28/UBERON_0002328.md) SubClassOf [develops_from](../../RO/02/RO_0002202.md) some [notochordal plate](../../UBERON/67/UBERON_0006267.md)
 * [notochordal plate](../../UBERON/67/UBERON_0006267.md) SubClassOf [develops_from](../../RO/02/RO_0002202.md) some [notochordal process](../../UBERON/68/UBERON_0006268.md)
 * [notochordal plate](../../UBERON/67/UBERON_0006267.md) SubClassOf [ecto-epithelium](../../UBERON/71/UBERON_0010371.md)
 * [notochordal plate](../../UBERON/67/UBERON_0006267.md) SubClassOf [embryonic tissue](../../UBERON/91/UBERON_0005291.md)
 * [notochordal plate](../../UBERON/67/UBERON_0006267.md) SubClassOf [part_of](../../BFO/50/BFO_0000050.md) some [embryo](../../UBERON/22/UBERON_0000922.md)
 * [notochordal plate](../../UBERON/67/UBERON_0006267.md) SubClassOf [unilaminar epithelium](../../UBERON/90/UBERON_0000490.md)

## External Comments

