
## Class : upper hypural set

 * *IRI* = http://purl.obolibrary.org/obo/UBERON_2002067
 * *Label* = upper hypural set
 * *Definition* = Anatomical cluster including hypural 3 and more dorsal hypurals that supports the dorsal series of principal caudal lepidotrichia or rays. The upper hypural set articulates or fuses to ural centra 3, 4 or 5 (polyural terminology) or ural centrum 2 (diural terminology) depending on the teleost subgroup. The upper hypural set is composed of unpaired median bones. [ [database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md) = TAO:GA_TG, [database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md) = TAO:wd ]
 * *Comment* = The number of hypurals included in the upper hypural set differs among teleostean subgroups. In basal teleosts this may include hypurals 3 to 9 or 10, whereas in more advanced groups this many include hypurals 3 to 5 or even less.

## Synonyms

 * upper hypurals [ [database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md) = TAO:0002067 ]

## Cross-references


## Subsets


## Superclasses

 * [anatomical cluster](../../UBERON/77/UBERON_0000477.md)
 * [part_of](../../BFO/50/BFO_0000050.md) some [caudal fin skeleton](../../UBERON/67/UBERON_4000167.md)

## Equivalencies


## Other Logical Axioms


## Other Annotations

 * *[definition](../../IAO/15/IAO_0000115.md)* = Anatomical cluster including hypural 3 and more dorsal hypurals that supports the dorsal series of principal caudal lepidotrichia or rays. The upper hypural set articulates or fuses to ural centra 3, 4 or 5 (polyural terminology) or ural centrum 2 (diural terminology) depending on the teleost subgroup. The upper hypural set is composed of unpaired median bones.
 * *[core#provenance_notes](../../core#provenance/es/core#provenance_notes.md)* = This class was sourced from an external ontology (teleost_anatomy). Its definitions, naming conventions and relationships may need to be checked for compatibility with uberon
 * *[oboInOwl#created_by](../../oboInOwl#created/by/oboInOwl#created_by.md)* = teleost_anatomy_curators
 * *[has_exact_synonym](../../ym/oboInOwl#hasExactSynonym.md)* = upper hypurals
 * *[rdf-schema#comment](../../nt/rdf-schema#comment.md)* = The number of hypurals included in the upper hypural set differs among teleostean subgroups. In basal teleosts this may include hypurals 3 to 9 or 10, whereas in more advanced groups this many include hypurals 3 to 5 or even less.
 * *[rdf-schema#label](../../el/rdf-schema#label.md)* = upper hypural set

## Usage

 * -
 * [hypural](../../UBERON/64/UBERON_2000364.md) SubClassOf [part_of](../../BFO/50/BFO_0000050.md) some [upper hypural set](../../UBERON/67/UBERON_2002067.md)
 * [upper hypural set](../../UBERON/67/UBERON_2002067.md) SubClassOf [anatomical cluster](../../UBERON/77/UBERON_0000477.md)
 * [upper hypural set](../../UBERON/67/UBERON_2002067.md) SubClassOf [part_of](../../BFO/50/BFO_0000050.md) some [caudal fin skeleton](../../UBERON/67/UBERON_4000167.md)

## External Comments

