
## Class : cervix glandular epithelium

 * *IRI* = http://purl.obolibrary.org/obo/UBERON_0012250
 * *Label* = cervix glandular epithelium
 * *Definition* = A glandular epithelium that is part of a uterine cervix. [ [database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md) = OBOL:automatic ]

## Synonyms

 * cervix columnar epithelium

## Cross-references

 * UMLS:C1707350 [ [oboInOwl#source](../../ce/oboInOwl#source.md) = ncithesaurus:Cervix_Columnar_Epithelium ]
 * http://linkedlifedata.com/resource/umls/id/C1707350
 * http://ncicb.nci.nih.gov/xml/owl/EVS/Cervix_Columnar_Epithelium

## Subsets


## Superclasses

 * [cervix epithelium](../../UBERON/01/UBERON_0004801.md)
 * [glandular epithelium](../../UBERON/99/UBERON_0006799.md)
 * [part_of](../../BFO/50/BFO_0000050.md) some [uterine cervix](../../UBERON/02/UBERON_0000002.md)

## Equivalencies

 * [glandular epithelium](../../UBERON/99/UBERON_0006799.md) and [part_of](../../BFO/50/BFO_0000050.md) some [uterine cervix](../../UBERON/02/UBERON_0000002.md)

## Other Logical Axioms


## Other Annotations

 * *[definition](../../IAO/15/IAO_0000115.md)* = A glandular epithelium that is part of a uterine cervix.
 * *[structure_notes](../../UBPROP/10/UBPROP_0000010.md)* = The 'glandular' or columnar epithelium of the cervix is located cephalad to the squamocolumnar junction. It covers a variable amount of the ectocervix and lines the endocervical canal. It is comprised of a single layer of mucin-secreting cells. The epithelium is thrown into longitudinal folds and invaginations that make up the so-called endocervical glands (they are not true glands). These infolding crypts and channels make the cytologic and colposcopic detection of neoplasia less reliable and more problematic. The complex architecture of the endocervical glands gives the columnar epithelium a papillary appearance through the colposcope and a grainy appearance upon gross visual inspection. The single cell layer allows the coloration of the underlying vasculature to be seen more easily. Therefore, the columnar epithelium appears more red in comparison with the more opaque squamous epithelium.
 * *[database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md)* = UMLS:C1707350
 * *[database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md)* = http://linkedlifedata.com/resource/umls/id/C1707350
 * *[database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md)* = http://ncicb.nci.nih.gov/xml/owl/EVS/Cervix_Columnar_Epithelium
 * *[has_related_synonym](../../ym/oboInOwl#hasRelatedSynonym.md)* = cervix columnar epithelium
 * *[rdf-schema#label](../../el/rdf-schema#label.md)* = cervix glandular epithelium

## Usage

 * -
 * [cervical squamo-columnar junction](../../UBERON/53/UBERON_0012253.md) == [continuous with](../../RO/50/RO_0002150.md) some [cervix glandular epithelium](../../UBERON/50/UBERON_0012250.md) and [continuous with](../../RO/50/RO_0002150.md) some [cervix squamous epithelium](../../UBERON/22/UBERON_0006922.md) and [epithelium](../../UBERON/83/UBERON_0000483.md) and [part_of](../../BFO/50/BFO_0000050.md) some [uterine cervix](../../UBERON/02/UBERON_0000002.md)
 * [cervical squamo-columnar junction](../../UBERON/53/UBERON_0012253.md) SubClassOf [continuous with](../../RO/50/RO_0002150.md) some [cervix glandular epithelium](../../UBERON/50/UBERON_0012250.md)
 * [cervix glandular epithelium](../../UBERON/50/UBERON_0012250.md) == [glandular epithelium](../../UBERON/99/UBERON_0006799.md) and [part_of](../../BFO/50/BFO_0000050.md) some [uterine cervix](../../UBERON/02/UBERON_0000002.md)
 * [cervix glandular epithelium](../../UBERON/50/UBERON_0012250.md) SubClassOf [cervix epithelium](../../UBERON/01/UBERON_0004801.md)
 * [cervix glandular epithelium](../../UBERON/50/UBERON_0012250.md) SubClassOf [glandular epithelium](../../UBERON/99/UBERON_0006799.md)
 * [cervix glandular epithelium](../../UBERON/50/UBERON_0012250.md) SubClassOf [part_of](../../BFO/50/BFO_0000050.md) some [uterine cervix](../../UBERON/02/UBERON_0000002.md)
 * [endocervical epithelium](../../UBERON/52/UBERON_0012252.md) SubClassOf [cervix glandular epithelium](../../UBERON/50/UBERON_0012250.md)

## External Comments

