
## Class : early pro-B cell

 * *IRI* = http://purl.obolibrary.org/obo/CL_0002046
 * *Label* = early pro-B cell
 * *Definition* = A pro-B cell that is CD22-positive, CD34-positive, CD38-positive and TdT-positive (has TdT activity). Pre-BCR is expressed on the cell surface. Cell is CD19-negative, CD20-negative, complement receptor type 2-negative and CD10-low. D-to-J recombination of the heavy chain occurs at this stage. [ [database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md) = GOC:dsd, [database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md) = GOC:tfm, [database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md) = PMID:18432934 ]
 * *Comment* = Markers are commonly associated with human cells. These cells are also reportedly CD21-negative. Transcription factors: PU.1-positive, Ikaros-positive, E2A-positive, and PAX5-positive.

## Synonyms


## Cross-references


## Subsets


## Superclasses

 * [pro-B cell](../../CL/26/CL_0000826.md)

## Equivalencies


## Other Logical Axioms


## Other Annotations

 * *[definition](../../IAO/15/IAO_0000115.md)* = A pro-B cell that is CD22-positive, CD34-positive, CD38-positive and TdT-positive (has TdT activity). Pre-BCR is expressed on the cell surface. Cell is CD19-negative, CD20-negative, complement receptor type 2-negative and CD10-low. D-to-J recombination of the heavy chain occurs at this stage.
 * *[oboInOwl#created_by](../../oboInOwl#created/by/oboInOwl#created_by.md)* = tmeehan
 * *[oboInOwl#creation_date](../../oboInOwl#creation/te/oboInOwl#creation_date.md)* = 2010-04-28T11:19:11Z
 * *[rdf-schema#comment](../../nt/rdf-schema#comment.md)* = Markers are commonly associated with human cells. These cells are also reportedly CD21-negative. Transcription factors: PU.1-positive, Ikaros-positive, E2A-positive, and PAX5-positive.
 * *[rdf-schema#label](../../el/rdf-schema#label.md)* = early pro-B cell

## Usage

 * -
 * [early pro-B cell](../../CL/46/CL_0002046.md) SubClassOf [pro-B cell](../../CL/26/CL_0000826.md)
 * [late pro-B cell](../../CL/48/CL_0002048.md) SubClassOf [develops_from](../../RO/02/RO_0002202.md) some [early pro-B cell](../../CL/46/CL_0002046.md)

## External Comments

