
## Class : inferior nasal concha

 * *IRI* = http://purl.obolibrary.org/obo/UBERON_0005922
 * *Label* = inferior nasal concha
 * *Definition* = The inferior nasal concha (Inferior Turbinated Bone) is one of the turbinates in the nose. It extends horizontally along the lateral wall of the nasal cavity [Fig. 1] and consists of a of spongy bone, curled upon itself like a scroll. Each inferior nasal concha is considered a facial pair of bones since they arise from the maxillae bones and projects horizontally into the nasal cavity. They are also termed 'inferior nasal turbinates' because they function similar to that of a turbine. As the air passes through the turbinates, the air is churned against these mucosa-lined bones in order to receive warmth, moisture and cleansing. Superior to inferior nasal concha are the middle nasal concha and superior nasal concha which arise from the cranial portion of the skull. Hence, these two are considered as a part of the cranial bones. It has two surfaces, two borders, and two extremities. [[database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md) =  + Wikipedia:Inferior_nasal_concha]
 * *Comment* = note that in FMA this is not classified with the other turbinates. In Uberon we subdivide the turbinates into the ethmoturbinates and the inferior turbinate. TODO: check ethmoidal process of inferior nasal concha

## Synonyms

 * inferior nasal turbinate [[database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md) =  + FMA:54736]
 * inferior nasal turbinate bone
 * inferior turbinate [[database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md) =  + FMA:54736]
 * concha nasalis inferior [[database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md) =  + Wikipedia:Inferior_nasal_concha[has_synonym_type](../../pe/oboInOwl#hasSynonymType.md) =  + http://purl.obolibrary.org/obo/uberon/core#LATIN]
 * concha nasi inferior [[database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md) =  + Wikipedia:Inferior_nasal_concha[has_synonym_type](../../pe/oboInOwl#hasSynonymType.md) =  + http://purl.obolibrary.org/obo/uberon/core#LATIN]
 * inferior concha [[database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md) =  + Wikipedia:Inferior_nasal_concha]
 * inferior turbinated [[database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md) =  + Wikipedia:Inferior_nasal_concha]

## Cross-references

 * FMA:54736
 * SCTID:361932000
 * SCTID:362882006
 * UMLS:C0225434 [[oboInOwl#source](../../ce/oboInOwl#source.md) =  + ncithesaurus:Inferior_Turbinate]
 * Wikipedia:Inferior_nasal_concha
 * http://upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/6/62/Gray192.png
 * ncithesaurus:Inferior_Turbinate

## Subsets


## Superclasses

 * [nasal concha](../../UBERON/62/UBERON_0001762.md)
 * [facial bone](../../UBERON/62/UBERON_0003462.md)
 * [irregular bone](../../UBERON/01/UBERON_0008001.md)
 * [neurocranium bone](../../UBERON/64/UBERON_0011164.md)
 * [part_of](../../BFO/50/BFO_0000050.md) some [facial skeleton](../../UBERON/56/UBERON_0011156.md)
 * [in_lateral_side_of](../../BSPO/26/BSPO_0000126.md) some [facial skeleton](../../UBERON/56/UBERON_0011156.md)
 * [develops from](../../RO/02/RO_0002202.md) some [nasal capsule](../../UBERON/32/UBERON_0006332.md)
 * [connected to](../../UBREL/01/UBREL_0000001.md) some [palatine bone](../../UBERON/82/UBERON_0001682.md)
 * [connected to](../../UBREL/01/UBREL_0000001.md) some [maxilla](../../UBERON/97/UBERON_0002397.md)

## Equivalencies


## Other Logical Axioms


## Other Annotations

 * *[has_obo_namespace](../../ce/oboInOwl#hasOBONamespace.md)* = uberon
 * *[oboInOwl#id](../../id/oboInOwl#id.md)* = UBERON:0005922

## External Comments

