
## Class : otic notch

 * *IRI* = http://purl.obolibrary.org/obo/UBERON_0013222
 * *Label* = otic notch
 * *Definition* = Otic notches are invagination in the posterior margin of the skull roof, one behind each orbit. Such notches are found in labyrinthodonts and some of their immediate ancestors, but not their reptilian descendants. The presence or absence of the otic notches is one of the traits used to separate the amniotes from the amphibian grade tetrapods. The notches have been interpreted as part of an auditory structure, and are often shown holding a tympanum similar to those seen in modern anurans. Analysis of the columella (the stapes in amphibians and reptiles) of labyrinthodonts however indicate it did not function in transmitting low energy vibrations, thus rendering them effectively deaf to airborne sound. The otic notch instead functioned as a spiracle, at least in the early forms. [ [database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md) = http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Otic_notch ]

## Synonyms


## Cross-references

 * http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Otic_notch

## Subsets


## Superclasses

 * [zone of bone organ](../../UBERON/13/UBERON_0005913.md)
 * [part_of](../../BFO/50/BFO_0000050.md) some [dermatocranium](../../UBERON/13/UBERON_0003113.md)

## Equivalencies


## Other Logical Axioms


## Other Annotations

 * *[definition](../../IAO/15/IAO_0000115.md)* = Otic notches are invagination in the posterior margin of the skull roof, one behind each orbit. Such notches are found in labyrinthodonts and some of their immediate ancestors, but not their reptilian descendants. The presence or absence of the otic notches is one of the traits used to separate the amniotes from the amphibian grade tetrapods. The notches have been interpreted as part of an auditory structure, and are often shown holding a tympanum similar to those seen in modern anurans. Analysis of the columella (the stapes in amphibians and reptiles) of labyrinthodonts however indicate it did not function in transmitting low energy vibrations, thus rendering them effectively deaf to airborne sound. The otic notch instead functioned as a spiracle, at least in the early forms.
 * *[database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md)* = http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Otic_notch
 * *[rdf-schema#label](../../el/rdf-schema#label.md)* = otic notch

## Usage

 * -
 * [otic notch](../../UBERON/22/UBERON_0013222.md) SubClassOf [part_of](../../BFO/50/BFO_0000050.md) some [dermatocranium](../../UBERON/13/UBERON_0003113.md)
 * [otic notch](../../UBERON/22/UBERON_0013222.md) SubClassOf [zone of bone organ](../../UBERON/13/UBERON_0005913.md)

## External Comments

