
## Class : caudate lobe of liver

 * *IRI* = http://purl.obolibrary.org/obo/UBERON_0001117
 * *Label* = caudate lobe of liver
 * *Definition* = The caudate lobe (posterior hepatic segment I, Spigelian lobe) is situated upon the postero-superior surface of the liver on the right lobe of the liver, opposite the tenth and eleventh thoracic vertebrae. It is bounded on the left side by the physiological division of the liver called the ligamentum venosum. It is bounded, below, by the porta; on the right, by the fossa for the inferior vena cava; and, on the left, by the fossa for the ductus venosus. It looks backward, being nearly vertical in position; it is longer from above downward than from side to side, and is somewhat concave in the transverse direction. The caudate process is a small elevation of the hepatic substance extending obliquely and laterally, from the lower extremity of the caudate lobe to the under surface of the right lobe. It is situated behind the porta, and separates the fossa for the gall-bladder from the commencement of the fossa for the inferior vena cava. Budd-Chiari syndrome, caused by occlusion of hepatic venous outflow, can lead to hypertrophy of the caudate lobe due to its own caval anastomosis that allows for continued function of this lobe of the liver. [WP,unvetted]. [[database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md) =  + Wikipedia:Caudate_lobe_of_liver]
 * *Comment* = Editor/taxon notes: Check left vs right in mouse and human

## Synonyms

 * Spiegelian lobe
 * Spigel lobe
 * couinaud hepatic segment I [[database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md) =  + FMA:13365]
 * hepatovenous segment I
 * liver caudate lobe
 * lobus caudatus [[has_synonym_type](../../pe/oboInOwl#hasSynonymType.md) =  + http://purl.obolibrary.org/obo/uberon/core#LATIN]
 * pars posterior hepatis [[database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md) =  + FMA:13365[database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md) =  + FMA:TA[has_synonym_type](../../pe/oboInOwl#hasSynonymType.md) =  + http://purl.obolibrary.org/obo/uberon/core#LATIN]
 * posterior hepatic segment i
 * posterior liver
 * posterior part of liver
 * segment I of liver
 * segmentum hepatis I [[database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md) =  + FMA:13365[database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md) =  + FMA:TA[has_synonym_type](../../pe/oboInOwl#hasSynonymType.md) =  + http://purl.obolibrary.org/obo/uberon/core#LATIN]
 * liver caudate process
 * segment hepatis posterius I [[database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md) =  + Wikipedia:Caudate_lobe_of_liver[has_synonym_type](../../pe/oboInOwl#hasSynonymType.md) =  + http://purl.obolibrary.org/obo/uberon/core#LATIN]

## Cross-references

 * EHDAA2:0001005
 * EHDAA:6990
 * EMAPA:18313
 * FMA:13365
 * MA:0000364
 * SCTID:362184009
 * UMLS:C0227489 [[oboInOwl#source](../../ce/oboInOwl#source.md) =  + ncithesaurus:Lobus_Caudatus]
 * VHOG:0000508
 * Wikipedia:Caudate_lobe_of_liver
 * http://upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/a/a3/Gray1087-liver.png
 * http://upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/a/a3/Gray1087-liver.png/200px-Gray1087-liver.png
 * ncithesaurus:Lobus_Caudatus

## Subsets

 * http://purl.obolibrary.org/obo/uberon/core#uberon_slim

## Superclasses

 * [right lobe of liver](../../UBERON/14/UBERON_0001114.md)
 * [part_of](../../BFO/50/BFO_0000050.md) some [left lobe of liver](../../UBERON/15/UBERON_0001115.md)

## Equivalencies


## Other Logical Axioms


## Other Annotations

 * *[external_definition](../../UBPROP/01/UBPROP_0000001.md)* = The portion of the right lobe of the liver between the fissure of the ligamentum venosum and the bare area of the liver. It ends into the superior recess of the lesser peritoneal sac. [Dorian_AF, Elsevier's_encyclopaedic_dictionary_of_medicine, Part_B:_Anatomy_(1988)_Amsterdam_etc.:_Elsevier][VHOG]
 * *[homology_notes](../../UBPROP/03/UBPROP_0000003.md)* = The caudate lobe is the only real and constant hepatic lobe of mammals (...) .[well established][VHOG]
 * *[homologous_in](../../core#homologous/in/core#homologous_in.md)* = http://purl.obolibrary.org/obo/NCBITaxon_7742
 * *[has_obo_namespace](../../ce/oboInOwl#hasOBONamespace.md)* = uberon
 * *[oboInOwl#id](../../id/oboInOwl#id.md)* = UBERON:0001117

## External Comments

