
## Class : zygomatic plate

 * *IRI* = http://purl.obolibrary.org/obo/UBERON_0013217
 * *Label* = zygomatic plate
 * *Definition* = In rodent anatomy, the zygomatic plate is a bony plate derived from the flattened front part of the zygomatic arch (cheekbone). At the back, it connects to the front (maxillary) root of the zygomatic arch, and at the top it is connected to the rest of the skull via the antorbital bridge. It is part of the maxillary bone, or upper jaw, which also contains the upper cheekteeth. Primitively, rodents have a nearly horizontal zygomatic plate. In association with specializations in zygomasseteric system, several distinct morphologies have developed across the order. The term is also used for an analogous structure in some South American typotheres, including Pseudotypotherium and Medistylus. [ [database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md) = http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Zygomatic_plate ]

## Synonyms


## Cross-references

 * http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Zygomatic_plate

## Subsets


## Superclasses

 * [mixed ectoderm/mesoderm/endoderm-derived structure](../../UBERON/78/UBERON_0000078.md)
 * [neural crest-derived structure](../../UBERON/13/UBERON_0010313.md)
 * [skeletal element projection](../../UBERON/00/UBERON_4100000.md)
 * [part_of](../../BFO/50/BFO_0000050.md) some [maxilla](../../UBERON/97/UBERON_0002397.md)
 * [part_of](../../BFO/50/BFO_0000050.md) some [zygomatic arch](../../UBERON/00/UBERON_0002500.md)

## Equivalencies


## Other Logical Axioms


## Other Annotations

 * *[definition](../../IAO/15/IAO_0000115.md)* = In rodent anatomy, the zygomatic plate is a bony plate derived from the flattened front part of the zygomatic arch (cheekbone). At the back, it connects to the front (maxillary) root of the zygomatic arch, and at the top it is connected to the rest of the skull via the antorbital bridge. It is part of the maxillary bone, or upper jaw, which also contains the upper cheekteeth. Primitively, rodents have a nearly horizontal zygomatic plate. In association with specializations in zygomasseteric system, several distinct morphologies have developed across the order. The term is also used for an analogous structure in some South American typotheres, including Pseudotypotherium and Medistylus.
 * *[database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md)* = http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Zygomatic_plate
 * *[rdf-schema#label](../../el/rdf-schema#label.md)* = zygomatic plate

## Usage

 * -
 * [zygomatic plate](../../UBERON/17/UBERON_0013217.md) SubClassOf [mixed ectoderm/mesoderm/endoderm-derived structure](../../UBERON/78/UBERON_0000078.md)
 * [zygomatic plate](../../UBERON/17/UBERON_0013217.md) SubClassOf [neural crest-derived structure](../../UBERON/13/UBERON_0010313.md)
 * [zygomatic plate](../../UBERON/17/UBERON_0013217.md) SubClassOf [part_of](../../BFO/50/BFO_0000050.md) some [maxilla](../../UBERON/97/UBERON_0002397.md)
 * [zygomatic plate](../../UBERON/17/UBERON_0013217.md) SubClassOf [part_of](../../BFO/50/BFO_0000050.md) some [zygomatic arch](../../UBERON/00/UBERON_0002500.md)
 * [zygomatic plate](../../UBERON/17/UBERON_0013217.md) SubClassOf [skeletal element projection](../../UBERON/00/UBERON_4100000.md)

## External Comments

