
## Class : lacrimal gland

 * *IRI* = http://purl.obolibrary.org/obo/UBERON_0001817
 * *Label* = lacrimal gland
 * *Definition* = The lacrimal glands are paired almond-shaped glands, one for each eye, that secrete the aqueous layer of the tear film. They are situated in the upper, outer portion of each orbit. Inflammation of the lacrimal glands is called dacryoadenitis[WP]. [[database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md) =  + Wikipedia:Lacrimal_gland]

## Synonyms

 * glandula lacrimalis [[database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md) =  + Wikipedia:Lacrimal_gland[has_synonym_type](../../pe/oboInOwl#hasSynonymType.md) =  + http://purl.obolibrary.org/obo/uberon/core#LATIN]
 * lacrimal-preorbital gland [[database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md) =  + UBERON:cjm]
 * glandula praeorbitalis [[database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md) =  + NCBITaxon:91561[database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md) =  + Wikipedia:Preorbital_gland[has_synonym_type](../../pe/oboInOwl#hasSynonymType.md) =  + http://purl.obolibrary.org/obo/uberon/core#SENSU]
 * preorbital gland [[database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md) =  + NCBITaxon:91561[database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md) =  + Wikipedia:Preorbital_gland[has_synonym_type](../../pe/oboInOwl#hasSynonymType.md) =  + http://purl.obolibrary.org/obo/uberon/core#SENSU]
 * tear gland [[database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md) =  + BTO:0000044]

## Cross-references

 * BTO:0000044
 * CALOHA:TS-0512
 * EFO:0001389
 * EV:0100339
 * FMA:59101
 * MA:0001296
 * SCTID:181147003
 * UMLS:C0022907 [[oboInOwl#source](../../ce/oboInOwl#source.md) =  + ncithesaurus:Lacrimal_Gland]
 * VHOG:0001476
 * Wikipedia:Lacrimal_gland
 * Wikipedia:Preorbital_gland
 * http://upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/c/cf/Gray896.png
 * http://upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/c/cf/Gray896.png/200px-Gray896.png
 * ncithesaurus:Lacrimal_Gland

## Subsets

 * http://purl.obolibrary.org/obo/uberon/core#efo_slim
 * http://purl.obolibrary.org/obo/uberon/core#organ_slim
 * http://purl.obolibrary.org/obo/uberon/core#uberon_slim

## Superclasses

 * [exocrine gland](../../UBERON/65/UBERON_0002365.md)
 * [ectoderm-derived structure](../../UBERON/21/UBERON_0004121.md)
 * [eye gland](../../UBERON/59/UBERON_0004859.md)
 * [part_of](../../BFO/50/BFO_0000050.md) some [lacrimal apparatus](../../UBERON/50/UBERON_0001750.md)
 * [part_of](../../BFO/50/BFO_0000050.md) some [exocrine system](../../UBERON/30/UBERON_0002330.md)

## Equivalencies


## Other Logical Axioms


## Other Annotations

 * *[external_definition](../../UBPROP/01/UBPROP_0000001.md)* = Lobular organ the parenchyma of which consists of glandular acini which communicate the lacrimal sac. Examples: There only two instances, right lacrimal and left lacrimal glands.
 * *[external_definition](../../UBPROP/01/UBPROP_0000001.md)* = The preorbital gland is a paired exocrine gland found in many species of hoofed animals, which is homologous to the lacrimal gland found in humans. These glands are trenchlike slits of dark blue to black, nearly bare skin extending from the medial canthus of each eye. They are lined by a combination of sebaceous and sudoriferous glands, and they produce secretions which contain pheromones and other semiochemical compounds. Ungulates frequently deposit these secretions on twigs and grass as a means of communication with other animals. The preorbital gland serves different roles in different species. Pheromone-containing secretions from the preorbital gland may serve to establish an animal's dominance (especially in preparation for breeding), mark its territory, or simply to produce a pleasurable sensation to the animal. Because of its critical role in scent marking, the preorbital gland is usually considered as a type of scent gland. A further function of these glands may be to produce antimicrobial compounds against skin pathogens. Antimicrobial compounds found in these glands may be biosynthesized by the animal itself, or by microorganisms that live in these glands[Wikipedia:Preorbital_gland].
 * *[homologous_in](../../core#homologous/in/core#homologous_in.md)* = http://purl.obolibrary.org/obo/NCBITaxon_7742
 * *[has_obo_namespace](../../ce/oboInOwl#hasOBONamespace.md)* = uberon
 * *[oboInOwl#id](../../id/oboInOwl#id.md)* = UBERON:0001817

## External Comments

