
## Class : pectoral fin fold

 * *IRI* = http://purl.obolibrary.org/obo/UBERON_2005317
 * *Label* = pectoral fin fold
 * *Definition* = The functional webs of the paired fins. They arise as a consequence of apical fold (AER) expansion and of migration of the distal mesenchyme. The fin folds are delimited by a dorsal and a ventral striated epidermis. The cells of the epidermal basal stratum are positioned on a basement membrane. Directly beneath the basement membrane of each side there is an array of actinotrichs, fibers of the extracellular matrix which act as supportive elements of the larval fin folds. [ [database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md) = ZFIN:ZDB-PUB-990210-18 ]

## Synonyms

 * pectoral fin-fold [ [database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md) = TAO:0005317 ]

## Cross-references

 * ZFA:0005317

## Subsets


## Superclasses

 * [multi-tissue structure](../../UBERON/81/UBERON_0000481.md)
 * [ectoderm-derived structure](../../UBERON/21/UBERON_0004121.md)
 * [part_of](../../BFO/50/BFO_0000050.md) some [pectoral fin](../../UBERON/51/UBERON_0000151.md)
 * [develops_from](../../RO/02/RO_0002202.md) some [fin fold pectoral fin bud](../../UBERON/16/UBERON_2005316.md)

## Equivalencies


## Other Logical Axioms


## Other Annotations

 * *[definition](../../IAO/15/IAO_0000115.md)* = The functional webs of the paired fins. They arise as a consequence of apical fold (AER) expansion and of migration of the distal mesenchyme. The fin folds are delimited by a dorsal and a ventral striated epidermis. The cells of the epidermal basal stratum are positioned on a basement membrane. Directly beneath the basement membrane of each side there is an array of actinotrichs, fibers of the extracellular matrix which act as supportive elements of the larval fin folds.
 * *[core#provenance_notes](../../core#provenance/es/core#provenance_notes.md)* = This class was sourced from an external ontology (teleost_anatomy). Its definitions, naming conventions and relationships may need to be checked for compatibility with uberon
 * *[oboInOwl#created_by](../../oboInOwl#created/by/oboInOwl#created_by.md)* = teleost_anatomy_curators
 * *[database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md)* = ZFA:0005317
 * *[has_exact_synonym](../../ym/oboInOwl#hasExactSynonym.md)* = pectoral fin-fold
 * *[rdf-schema#label](../../el/rdf-schema#label.md)* = pectoral fin fold

## Usage

 * -
 * [pectoral fin fold](../../UBERON/17/UBERON_2005317.md) SubClassOf [develops_from](../../RO/02/RO_0002202.md) some [fin fold pectoral fin bud](../../UBERON/16/UBERON_2005316.md)
 * [pectoral fin fold](../../UBERON/17/UBERON_2005317.md) SubClassOf [ectoderm-derived structure](../../UBERON/21/UBERON_0004121.md)
 * [pectoral fin fold](../../UBERON/17/UBERON_2005317.md) SubClassOf [multi-tissue structure](../../UBERON/81/UBERON_0000481.md)
 * [pectoral fin fold](../../UBERON/17/UBERON_2005317.md) SubClassOf [part_of](../../BFO/50/BFO_0000050.md) some [pectoral fin](../../UBERON/51/UBERON_0000151.md)

## External Comments

