
## Class : visceral hump

 * *IRI* = http://purl.obolibrary.org/obo/UBERON_0008937
 * *Label* = visceral hump
 * *Definition* = Mollusks have three distinct divisions of their body. The head contains the sensory equipment (eyes, antennae, etc) and the primitive brain. The visceral hump, which is the main body, contains most of the organs, including a complete digestive and excretory tract as well as the reproductive organs. The visceral hump also includes the two external flaps of tissue, which are known as the mantle. [ [database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md) = BTO:0001448, [database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md) = http://www.britannica.com/EBchecked/topic/630349/visceral-hump ]

## Synonyms

 * visceral sac [ [database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md) = BTO:0001448 ]

## Cross-references

 * BTO:0001448

## Subsets


## Superclasses

 * [organism subdivision](../../UBERON/75/UBERON_0000475.md)
 * [only in taxon](../../RO/60/RO_0002160.md) some [Mollusca](../../NCBITaxon/47/NCBITaxon_6447.md)

## Equivalencies


## Other Logical Axioms


## Other Annotations

 * *[definition](../../IAO/15/IAO_0000115.md)* = Mollusks have three distinct divisions of their body. The head contains the sensory equipment (eyes, antennae, etc) and the primitive brain. The visceral hump, which is the main body, contains most of the organs, including a complete digestive and excretory tract as well as the reproductive organs. The visceral hump also includes the two external flaps of tissue, which are known as the mantle.
 * *[database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md)* = BTO:0001448
 * *[has_related_synonym](../../ym/oboInOwl#hasRelatedSynonym.md)* = visceral sac
 * *[rdf-schema#label](../../el/rdf-schema#label.md)* = visceral hump

## Usage

 * -
 * [abdominal ganglion of visceral hump](../../UBERON/64/UBERON_0008964.md) SubClassOf [part_of](../../BFO/50/BFO_0000050.md) some [visceral hump](../../UBERON/37/UBERON_0008937.md)
 * [parietal ganglion](../../UBERON/40/UBERON_0008940.md) SubClassOf [part_of](../../BFO/50/BFO_0000050.md) some [visceral hump](../../UBERON/37/UBERON_0008937.md)
 * [pedal ganglion](../../UBERON/39/UBERON_0008939.md) SubClassOf [part_of](../../BFO/50/BFO_0000050.md) some [visceral hump](../../UBERON/37/UBERON_0008937.md)
 * [pleural ganglion](../../UBERON/41/UBERON_0008941.md) SubClassOf [part_of](../../BFO/50/BFO_0000050.md) some [visceral hump](../../UBERON/37/UBERON_0008937.md)
 * [visceral hump](../../UBERON/37/UBERON_0008937.md) SubClassOf [only in taxon](../../RO/60/RO_0002160.md) some [Mollusca](../../NCBITaxon/47/NCBITaxon_6447.md)
 * [visceral hump](../../UBERON/37/UBERON_0008937.md) SubClassOf [organism subdivision](../../UBERON/75/UBERON_0000475.md)

## External Comments

