
## Class : visceral fascia

 * *IRI* = http://purl.obolibrary.org/obo/UBERON_0011237
 * *Label* = visceral fascia
 * *Definition* = Fascia that suspends a visceral organ. [ [database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md) = UBERON:cjm ]
 * *Comment* = Visceral fascia suspends the organs within their cavities and wraps them in layers of connective tissue membranes. Each of the organs is covered in a double layer of fascia; these layers are separated by a thin serous membrane. The outermost wall of the organ is known as the parietal layer The skin of the organ is known as the visceral layer. The organs have specialized names for their visceral fasciae. In the brain, they are known as meninges; in the heart they are known as pericardia; in the lungs, they are known as pleura; and in the abdomen, they are known as peritonea. [Wikipedia:Visceral_fascia]

## Synonyms

 * parietal fascia [ [database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md) = http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Visceral_fascia ]

## Cross-references

 * FMA:76754
 * http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Visceral_fascia

## Subsets


## Superclasses

 * [fascia](../../UBERON/82/UBERON_0008982.md)

## Equivalencies


## Other Logical Axioms


## Other Annotations

 * *[definition](../../IAO/15/IAO_0000115.md)* = Fascia that suspends a visceral organ.
 * *[external_ontology_notes](../../UBPROP/12/UBPROP_0000012.md)* = FMA considers parietal fascia a different class
 * *[database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md)* = FMA:76754
 * *[database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md)* = http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Visceral_fascia
 * *[has_related_synonym](../../ym/oboInOwl#hasRelatedSynonym.md)* = parietal fascia
 * *[rdf-schema#comment](../../nt/rdf-schema#comment.md)* = Visceral fascia suspends the organs within their cavities and wraps them in layers of connective tissue membranes. Each of the organs is covered in a double layer of fascia; these layers are separated by a thin serous membrane. The outermost wall of the organ is known as the parietal layer The skin of the organ is known as the visceral layer. The organs have specialized names for their visceral fasciae. In the brain, they are known as meninges; in the heart they are known as pericardia; in the lungs, they are known as pleura; and in the abdomen, they are known as peritonea. [Wikipedia:Visceral_fascia]
 * *[rdf-schema#label](../../el/rdf-schema#label.md)* = visceral fascia

## Usage

 * -
 * [visceral fascia](../../UBERON/37/UBERON_0011237.md) SubClassOf [fascia](../../UBERON/82/UBERON_0008982.md)

## External Comments

