
## Class : lens epithelial cell

 * *IRI* = http://purl.obolibrary.org/obo/CL_0002224
 * *Label* = lens epithelial cell
 * *Definition* = A cell of the cuboidal epithelium that covers the lens. The cells of the lens epithelium regulate most of the homeostatic functions of the lens. As ions, nutrients, and liquid enter the lens from the aqueous humor, Na+/K+ ATPase pumps in the lens epithelial cells pump ions out of the lens to maintain appropriate lens osmolarity and volume, with equatorially positioned lens epithelium cells contributing most to this current. The activity of the Na+/K+ ATPases keeps water and current flowing through the lens from the poles and exiting through the equatorial regions. The cells of the lens epithelium also serve as the progenitors for new lens fibers. It constantly lays down fibers in the embryo, fetus, infant, and adult, and continues to lay down fibers for lifelong growth. [ [database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md) = GOC:tfm, [database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md) = ISBN:0721662544, [database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md) = http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Lens_%28anatomy%29#Lens_epithelium ]

## Synonyms


## Cross-references

 * FMA:67559

## Subsets


## Superclasses

 * [columnar/cuboidal epithelial cell](../../CL/75/CL_0000075.md)
 * [vertebrate lens cell](../../CL/22/CL_0002222.md)
 * [part_of](../../BFO/50/BFO_0000050.md) some [epithelium of lens](../../UBERON/03/UBERON_0001803.md)

## Equivalencies


## Other Logical Axioms


## Other Annotations

 * *[definition](../../IAO/15/IAO_0000115.md)* = A cell of the cuboidal epithelium that covers the lens. The cells of the lens epithelium regulate most of the homeostatic functions of the lens. As ions, nutrients, and liquid enter the lens from the aqueous humor, Na+/K+ ATPase pumps in the lens epithelial cells pump ions out of the lens to maintain appropriate lens osmolarity and volume, with equatorially positioned lens epithelium cells contributing most to this current. The activity of the Na+/K+ ATPases keeps water and current flowing through the lens from the poles and exiting through the equatorial regions. The cells of the lens epithelium also serve as the progenitors for new lens fibers. It constantly lays down fibers in the embryo, fetus, infant, and adult, and continues to lay down fibers for lifelong growth.
 * *[oboInOwl#created_by](../../oboInOwl#created/by/oboInOwl#created_by.md)* = tmeehan
 * *[oboInOwl#creation_date](../../oboInOwl#creation/te/oboInOwl#creation_date.md)* = 2010-09-07T10:45:47Z
 * *[database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md)* = FMA:67559
 * *[rdf-schema#label](../../el/rdf-schema#label.md)* = lens epithelial cell

## Usage

 * -
 * [anterior lens cell](../../CL/23/CL_0002223.md) SubClassOf [lens epithelial cell](../../CL/24/CL_0002224.md)
 * [lens epithelial cell](../../CL/24/CL_0002224.md) SubClassOf [columnar/cuboidal epithelial cell](../../CL/75/CL_0000075.md)
 * [lens epithelial cell](../../CL/24/CL_0002224.md) SubClassOf [part_of](../../BFO/50/BFO_0000050.md) some [epithelium of lens](../../UBERON/03/UBERON_0001803.md)
 * [lens epithelial cell](../../CL/24/CL_0002224.md) SubClassOf [vertebrate lens cell](../../CL/22/CL_0002222.md)

## External Comments

