
## Class : corpuscle of de Quatrefage

 * *IRI* = http://purl.obolibrary.org/obo/UBERON_0009956
 * *Label* = corpuscle of de Quatrefage
 * *Definition* = A specialised sensory organ located in the subepidermal connective tissue at the rostral end of late larval and adult amphioxus. They consist of between 1 and 4 nerve cells with axons, each with 2 cilia, surrounded by up to 7 sheath cells. The cilia extend into a protrusion of the basal lamina which surrounds each corpuscle. The axonal process contributes to the rostral nerve. [ [database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md) = http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/11523831 ]

## Synonyms

 * organ of de Quatrefage

## Cross-references


## Subsets


## Superclasses

 * [sense organ](../../UBERON/20/UBERON_0000020.md)
 * [only in taxon](../../RO/60/RO_0002160.md) some [Branchiostoma](../../NCBITaxon/37/NCBITaxon_7737.md)

## Equivalencies


## Other Logical Axioms


## Other Annotations

 * *[definition](../../IAO/15/IAO_0000115.md)* = A specialised sensory organ located in the subepidermal connective tissue at the rostral end of late larval and adult amphioxus. They consist of between 1 and 4 nerve cells with axons, each with 2 cilia, surrounded by up to 7 sheath cells. The cilia extend into a protrusion of the basal lamina which surrounds each corpuscle. The axonal process contributes to the rostral nerve.
 * *[has_exact_synonym](../../ym/oboInOwl#hasExactSynonym.md)* = organ of de Quatrefage
 * *[rdf-schema#label](../../el/rdf-schema#label.md)* = corpuscle of de Quatrefage

## Usage

 * -
 * [corpuscle of de Quatrefage](../../UBERON/56/UBERON_0009956.md) SubClassOf [only in taxon](../../RO/60/RO_0002160.md) some [Branchiostoma](../../NCBITaxon/37/NCBITaxon_7737.md)
 * [corpuscle of de Quatrefage](../../UBERON/56/UBERON_0009956.md) SubClassOf [sense organ](../../UBERON/20/UBERON_0000020.md)

## External Comments

