
## Class : sweat gland of eyelid

 * *IRI* = http://purl.obolibrary.org/obo/UBERON_0013228
 * *Label* = sweat gland of eyelid
 * *Definition* = Glands of Moll, also known as ciliary glands, are modified apocrine sweat glands that are found on the margin of the eyelid. They are next to the base of the eyelashes, and anterior to the Meibomian glands within the distal eyelid margin. These glands are relatively large and tubular-shaped. The glands of Moll are named after Dutch oculist Jacob Anton Moll (1832–1914). Glands of Moll empty into the adjacent lashes. Glands of Moll and Zeis secrete lipid that adds to the superficial layer of the tear film, retarding evaporation. The glands of Moll are prone to infection and blockage of its duct with sebum and cell debris. Blockage of the gland's duct causes swelling which can manifest itself as a stye. [ [database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md) = http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Gland_of_Moll ]

## Synonyms

 * Moll's gland [ [database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md) = FMA:59159 ]
 * ciliary gland [ [database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md) = FMA:59159 ]
 * ciliary gland of moll [ [database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md) = FMA:59159 ]
 * ciliary sweat gland of eyelid [ [database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md) = FMA:59159 ]
 * gland of Moll [ [database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md) = FMA:59159 ]

## Cross-references

 * FMA:59159
 * http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Gland_of_Moll
 * http://ncicb.nci.nih.gov/xml/owl/EVS/Gland_of_Moll
 * http://www.snomedbrowser.com/Codes/Details/280586002

## Subsets


## Superclasses

 * [apocrine sweat gland](../../UBERON/82/UBERON_0000382.md)
 * [eye skin gland](../../UBERON/05/UBERON_0003605.md)
 * [eyelid gland](../../UBERON/29/UBERON_0013229.md)
 * [part_of](../../BFO/50/BFO_0000050.md) some [eyelid](../../UBERON/11/UBERON_0001711.md)

## Equivalencies

 * [apocrine sweat gland](../../UBERON/82/UBERON_0000382.md) and [part_of](../../BFO/50/BFO_0000050.md) some [eyelid](../../UBERON/11/UBERON_0001711.md)

## Other Logical Axioms


## Other Annotations

 * *[definition](../../IAO/15/IAO_0000115.md)* = Glands of Moll, also known as ciliary glands, are modified apocrine sweat glands that are found on the margin of the eyelid. They are next to the base of the eyelashes, and anterior to the Meibomian glands within the distal eyelid margin. These glands are relatively large and tubular-shaped. The glands of Moll are named after Dutch oculist Jacob Anton Moll (1832–1914). Glands of Moll empty into the adjacent lashes. Glands of Moll and Zeis secrete lipid that adds to the superficial layer of the tear film, retarding evaporation. The glands of Moll are prone to infection and blockage of its duct with sebum and cell debris. Blockage of the gland's duct causes swelling which can manifest itself as a stye.
 * *[database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md)* = FMA:59159
 * *[database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md)* = http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Gland_of_Moll
 * *[database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md)* = http://ncicb.nci.nih.gov/xml/owl/EVS/Gland_of_Moll
 * *[database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md)* = http://www.snomedbrowser.com/Codes/Details/280586002
 * *[has_exact_synonym](../../ym/oboInOwl#hasExactSynonym.md)* = Moll's gland
 * *[has_exact_synonym](../../ym/oboInOwl#hasExactSynonym.md)* = ciliary gland
 * *[has_exact_synonym](../../ym/oboInOwl#hasExactSynonym.md)* = ciliary gland of moll
 * *[has_exact_synonym](../../ym/oboInOwl#hasExactSynonym.md)* = ciliary sweat gland of eyelid
 * *[has_exact_synonym](../../ym/oboInOwl#hasExactSynonym.md)* = gland of Moll
 * *[rdf-schema#label](../../el/rdf-schema#label.md)* = sweat gland of eyelid

## Usage

 * -
 * [sweat gland of eyelid](../../UBERON/28/UBERON_0013228.md) == [apocrine sweat gland](../../UBERON/82/UBERON_0000382.md) and [part_of](../../BFO/50/BFO_0000050.md) some [eyelid](../../UBERON/11/UBERON_0001711.md)
 * [sweat gland of eyelid](../../UBERON/28/UBERON_0013228.md) SubClassOf [apocrine sweat gland](../../UBERON/82/UBERON_0000382.md)
 * [sweat gland of eyelid](../../UBERON/28/UBERON_0013228.md) SubClassOf [eye skin gland](../../UBERON/05/UBERON_0003605.md)
 * [sweat gland of eyelid](../../UBERON/28/UBERON_0013228.md) SubClassOf [eyelid gland](../../UBERON/29/UBERON_0013229.md)
 * [sweat gland of eyelid](../../UBERON/28/UBERON_0013228.md) SubClassOf [part_of](../../BFO/50/BFO_0000050.md) some [eyelid](../../UBERON/11/UBERON_0001711.md)

## External Comments

