
## Class : medullary command nucleus

 * *IRI* = http://purl.obolibrary.org/obo/UBERON_2002107
 * *Label* = medullary command nucleus
 * *Definition* = Anatomical structure that consists of two neuron types: pacemaker cells and relay cells. The medullary command nucleus commands the timing of the electric organ discharge. [ [database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md) = TAO:wd ]
 * *Comment* = Definition reference: Moortgat, KT, Bullock, TH, and Sejnowski TJ. 2000. J Neurophysiol 83: 971-983. Precision of the Pacemaker Nucleus in a Weakly Electric Fish: Network Versus Cellular Influences.

## Synonyms

 * MCN [ [database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md) = TAO:0002107 ]
 * medullary pacemaker nucleus [ [database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md) = TAO:0002107 ]
 * pacemaker nucleus [ [database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md) = TAO:0002107 ]

## Cross-references


## Subsets


## Superclasses

 * [regional part of brain](../../UBERON/16/UBERON_0002616.md)
 * [structure with developmental contribution from neural crest](../../UBERON/14/UBERON_0010314.md)
 * [part_of](../../BFO/50/BFO_0000050.md) some [hindbrain](../../UBERON/28/UBERON_0002028.md)

## Equivalencies


## Other Logical Axioms


## Other Annotations

 * *[definition](../../IAO/15/IAO_0000115.md)* = Anatomical structure that consists of two neuron types: pacemaker cells and relay cells. The medullary command nucleus commands the timing of the electric organ discharge.
 * *[oboInOwl#created_by](../../oboInOwl#created/by/oboInOwl#created_by.md)* = teleost_anatomy_curators
 * *[has_exact_synonym](../../ym/oboInOwl#hasExactSynonym.md)* = MCN
 * *[has_exact_synonym](../../ym/oboInOwl#hasExactSynonym.md)* = medullary pacemaker nucleus
 * *[has_exact_synonym](../../ym/oboInOwl#hasExactSynonym.md)* = pacemaker nucleus
 * *[rdf-schema#comment](../../nt/rdf-schema#comment.md)* = Definition reference: Moortgat, KT, Bullock, TH, and Sejnowski TJ. 2000. J Neurophysiol 83: 971-983. Precision of the Pacemaker Nucleus in a Weakly Electric Fish: Network Versus Cellular Influences.
 * *[rdf-schema#label](../../el/rdf-schema#label.md)* = medullary command nucleus

## Usage

 * -
 * [medullary command nucleus](../../UBERON/07/UBERON_2002107.md) SubClassOf [part_of](../../BFO/50/BFO_0000050.md) some [hindbrain](../../UBERON/28/UBERON_0002028.md)
 * [medullary command nucleus](../../UBERON/07/UBERON_2002107.md) SubClassOf [regional part of brain](../../UBERON/16/UBERON_0002616.md)
 * [medullary command nucleus](../../UBERON/07/UBERON_2002107.md) SubClassOf [structure with developmental contribution from neural crest](../../UBERON/14/UBERON_0010314.md)

## External Comments

