
## Class : pharyngobasilar fascia

 * *IRI* = http://purl.obolibrary.org/obo/UBERON_0011289
 * *Label* = pharyngobasilar fascia
 * *Definition* = The pharyngeal aponeurosis (or pharyngobasilar fascia, or fibrous coat), is situated between the mucous and muscular layers. It is thick above where the muscular fibers are wanting, and is firmly connected to the basilar portion of the occipital and the petrous portions of the temporal bones. As it descends it diminishes in thickness, and is gradually lost. It is strengthened posteriorly by a strong fibrous band, which is attached above to the pharyngeal spine on the under surface of the basilar portion of the occipital bone, and passes downward, forming a median raphe, which gives attachment to the Constrictores pharyngis. [ [database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md) = http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Pharyngobasilar_fascia ]

## Synonyms

 * pharyngeal aponeurosis [ [database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md) = FMA:55074 ]
 * pharyngeal aponeurosis [ [database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md) = http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Pharyngobasilar_fascia ]

## Cross-references

 * FMA:55074
 * http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Pharyngobasilar_fascia
 * http://www.snomedbrowser.com/Codes/Details/16675008

## Subsets


## Superclasses

 * [endoderm-derived structure](../../UBERON/19/UBERON_0004119.md)
 * [aponeurosis](../../UBERON/14/UBERON_0006614.md)
 * [part_of](../../BFO/50/BFO_0000050.md) some [chordate pharynx](../../UBERON/42/UBERON_0001042.md)

## Equivalencies

 * [aponeurosis](../../UBERON/14/UBERON_0006614.md) and [part_of](../../BFO/50/BFO_0000050.md) some [chordate pharynx](../../UBERON/42/UBERON_0001042.md)

## Other Logical Axioms


## Other Annotations

 * *[definition](../../IAO/15/IAO_0000115.md)* = The pharyngeal aponeurosis (or pharyngobasilar fascia, or fibrous coat), is situated between the mucous and muscular layers. It is thick above where the muscular fibers are wanting, and is firmly connected to the basilar portion of the occipital and the petrous portions of the temporal bones. As it descends it diminishes in thickness, and is gradually lost. It is strengthened posteriorly by a strong fibrous band, which is attached above to the pharyngeal spine on the under surface of the basilar portion of the occipital bone, and passes downward, forming a median raphe, which gives attachment to the Constrictores pharyngis.
 * *[database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md)* = FMA:55074
 * *[database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md)* = http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Pharyngobasilar_fascia
 * *[database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md)* = http://www.snomedbrowser.com/Codes/Details/16675008
 * *[has_exact_synonym](../../ym/oboInOwl#hasExactSynonym.md)* = pharyngeal aponeurosis
 * *[has_related_synonym](../../ym/oboInOwl#hasRelatedSynonym.md)* = pharyngeal aponeurosis
 * *[rdf-schema#label](../../el/rdf-schema#label.md)* = pharyngobasilar fascia

## Usage

 * -
 * [pharyngobasilar fascia](../../UBERON/89/UBERON_0011289.md) == [aponeurosis](../../UBERON/14/UBERON_0006614.md) and [part_of](../../BFO/50/BFO_0000050.md) some [chordate pharynx](../../UBERON/42/UBERON_0001042.md)
 * [pharyngobasilar fascia](../../UBERON/89/UBERON_0011289.md) SubClassOf [aponeurosis](../../UBERON/14/UBERON_0006614.md)
 * [pharyngobasilar fascia](../../UBERON/89/UBERON_0011289.md) SubClassOf [endoderm-derived structure](../../UBERON/19/UBERON_0004119.md)
 * [pharyngobasilar fascia](../../UBERON/89/UBERON_0011289.md) SubClassOf [part_of](../../BFO/50/BFO_0000050.md) some [chordate pharynx](../../UBERON/42/UBERON_0001042.md)

## External Comments

