
## Class : gular plate

 * *IRI* = http://purl.obolibrary.org/obo/UBERON_2002089
 * *Label* = gular plate
 * *Definition* = Dermal bone located on the ventral surface of the skull and positioned between the two rami of the lower jaw. Anteriorly the gular attaches to the symphysis of the lower jaw through fibrous connective tissue. The gular is an unpaired median bone. [ [database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md) = TAO:ga_tg, [database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md) = TAO:wd ]
 * *Comment* = A gular plate is absent in most extant teleosts.

## Synonyms

 * median gular [ [database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md) = TAO:0002089 ]

## Cross-references


## Subsets


## Superclasses

 * [dermal bone](../../UBERON/07/UBERON_0008907.md)
 * [part_of](../../BFO/50/BFO_0000050.md) some [dermatocranium](../../UBERON/13/UBERON_0003113.md)

## Equivalencies


## Other Logical Axioms


## Other Annotations

 * *[definition](../../IAO/15/IAO_0000115.md)* = Dermal bone located on the ventral surface of the skull and positioned between the two rami of the lower jaw. Anteriorly the gular attaches to the symphysis of the lower jaw through fibrous connective tissue. The gular is an unpaired median bone.
 * *[core#provenance_notes](../../core#provenance/es/core#provenance_notes.md)* = This class was sourced from an external ontology (teleost_anatomy). Its definitions, naming conventions and relationships may need to be checked for compatibility with uberon
 * *[oboInOwl#created_by](../../oboInOwl#created/by/oboInOwl#created_by.md)* = teleost_anatomy_curators
 * *[has_exact_synonym](../../ym/oboInOwl#hasExactSynonym.md)* = median gular
 * *[rdf-schema#comment](../../nt/rdf-schema#comment.md)* = A gular plate is absent in most extant teleosts.
 * *[rdf-schema#label](../../el/rdf-schema#label.md)* = gular plate

## Usage

 * -
 * [gular plate](../../UBERON/89/UBERON_2002089.md) SubClassOf [dermal bone](../../UBERON/07/UBERON_0008907.md)
 * [gular plate](../../UBERON/89/UBERON_2002089.md) SubClassOf [part_of](../../BFO/50/BFO_0000050.md) some [dermatocranium](../../UBERON/13/UBERON_0003113.md)

## External Comments

