
## Class : enterochromaffin-like cell

 * *IRI* = http://purl.obolibrary.org/obo/CL_0000504
 * *Label* = enterochromaffin-like cell
 * *Definition* = A enteroendocrine cell part of the glands of the gastric mucosa. They produce histamine and peptides such as chromogranins. This cell type respond to gastrin by releasing histamine which acts as a paracrine stimulator of the release of hydrochloric acid from the gastric parietal cells. [ [database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md) = GOC:tfm, [database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md) = MESH:A06.224.365 ]
 * *Comment* = Consider enterochromaffin cell (CL:0002065). For several years this cell type was "enterochromaffin cell" despite a MESH dbxref and a free text definition that clearly meant enterochromaffin-like cell.

## Synonyms

 * ECL

## Cross-references

 * BTO:0002692

## Subsets


## Superclasses

 * [enteroendocrine cell](../../CL/64/CL_0000164.md)
 * [histamine secreting cell](../../CL/74/CL_0002274.md)

## Equivalencies


## Other Logical Axioms


## Other Annotations

 * *[definition](../../IAO/15/IAO_0000115.md)* = A enteroendocrine cell part of the glands of the gastric mucosa. They produce histamine and peptides such as chromogranins. This cell type respond to gastrin by releasing histamine which acts as a paracrine stimulator of the release of hydrochloric acid from the gastric parietal cells.
 * *[database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md)* = BTO:0002692
 * *[has_exact_synonym](../../ym/oboInOwl#hasExactSynonym.md)* = ECL
 * *[rdf-schema#comment](../../nt/rdf-schema#comment.md)* = Consider enterochromaffin cell (CL:0002065). For several years this cell type was "enterochromaffin cell" despite a MESH dbxref and a free text definition that clearly meant enterochromaffin-like cell.
 * *[rdf-schema#label](../../el/rdf-schema#label.md)* = enterochromaffin-like cell

## Usage

 * -
 * [enterochromaffin-like cell](../../CL/04/CL_0000504.md) SubClassOf [enteroendocrine cell](../../CL/64/CL_0000164.md)
 * [enterochromaffin-like cell](../../CL/04/CL_0000504.md) SubClassOf [histamine secreting cell](../../CL/74/CL_0002274.md)

## External Comments

