
## Class : preural 1 vertebra

 * *IRI* = http://purl.obolibrary.org/obo/UBERON_2000557
 * *Label* = preural 1 vertebra
 * *Definition* = Last caudal vertebra identified as the point at which the caudal vessels bifurcate, leaving the protection of the haemal arches of the caudal vertebrae and running laterally to the hypurals. This vertebra bears, commonly, a well-developed haemal arch and its spine (parhypural). [ [database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md) = TAO:GA_TG ]
 * *Comment* = The haemal arch may be fused to the centrum or not. In contrast, the neural arch and spine may be well developed, or rudimentary or absent in different teleost subgroups.

## Synonyms

 * penultimate vertebra [ [database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md) = TAO:0000557 ]
 * preural centrum 1 [ [database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md) = TAO:0000557 ]
 * pu1 [ [database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md) = TAO:0000557 ]
 * second last vertebra [ [database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md) = TAO:0000557 ]

## Cross-references

 * ZFA:0000557

## Subsets


## Superclasses

 * [preural vertebra](../../UBERON/34/UBERON_2000734.md)

## Equivalencies


## Other Logical Axioms


## Other Annotations

 * *[definition](../../IAO/15/IAO_0000115.md)* = Last caudal vertebra identified as the point at which the caudal vessels bifurcate, leaving the protection of the haemal arches of the caudal vertebrae and running laterally to the hypurals. This vertebra bears, commonly, a well-developed haemal arch and its spine (parhypural).
 * *[core#provenance_notes](../../core#provenance/es/core#provenance_notes.md)* = This class was sourced from an external ontology (teleost_anatomy). Its definitions, naming conventions and relationships may need to be checked for compatibility with uberon
 * *[oboInOwl#created_by](../../oboInOwl#created/by/oboInOwl#created_by.md)* = teleost_anatomy_curators
 * *[database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md)* = ZFA:0000557
 * *[has_exact_synonym](../../ym/oboInOwl#hasExactSynonym.md)* = penultimate vertebra
 * *[has_exact_synonym](../../ym/oboInOwl#hasExactSynonym.md)* = preural centrum 1
 * *[has_exact_synonym](../../ym/oboInOwl#hasExactSynonym.md)* = pu1
 * *[has_exact_synonym](../../ym/oboInOwl#hasExactSynonym.md)* = second last vertebra
 * *[rdf-schema#comment](../../nt/rdf-schema#comment.md)* = The haemal arch may be fused to the centrum or not. In contrast, the neural arch and spine may be well developed, or rudimentary or absent in different teleost subgroups.
 * *[rdf-schema#label](../../el/rdf-schema#label.md)* = preural 1 vertebra

## Usage

 * -
 * [parhypural](../../UBERON/38/UBERON_2000438.md) SubClassOf [part_of](../../BFO/50/BFO_0000050.md) some [preural 1 vertebra](../../UBERON/57/UBERON_2000557.md)
 * [preural 1 vertebra](../../UBERON/57/UBERON_2000557.md) SubClassOf [preural vertebra](../../UBERON/34/UBERON_2000734.md)

## External Comments

