
## Class : follicular dendritic cell

 * *IRI* = http://purl.obolibrary.org/obo/CL_0000442
 * *Label* = follicular dendritic cell
 * *Definition* = A cell with extensive dendritic processes found in the B cell areas (primary follicles and germinal centers) of lymphoid tissue. They are unrelated to the dendritic cell associated with T cells. Follicular dendritic cells have Fc receptors and C3b receptors, but unlike other dendritic cells, they do not process or present antigen in a way that allows recognition by T cells. Instead, they hold antigen in the form of immune complexes on their surfaces for long periods and can present antigen to B cells during an immune response. [ [database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md) = ISBN:127520252 ]
 * *Comment* = Due to its unique lineage and distinct function, this is not a type of dendritic cell; CL:0000451.

## Synonyms


## Cross-references

 * BTO:0004267
 * FMA:83037

## Subsets


## Superclasses

 * [defensive cell](../../CL/73/CL_0000473.md)

## Equivalencies


## Other Logical Axioms


## Other Annotations

 * *[definition](../../IAO/15/IAO_0000115.md)* = A cell with extensive dendritic processes found in the B cell areas (primary follicles and germinal centers) of lymphoid tissue. They are unrelated to the dendritic cell associated with T cells. Follicular dendritic cells have Fc receptors and C3b receptors, but unlike other dendritic cells, they do not process or present antigen in a way that allows recognition by T cells. Instead, they hold antigen in the form of immune complexes on their surfaces for long periods and can present antigen to B cells during an immune response.
 * *[database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md)* = BTO:0004267
 * *[database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md)* = FMA:83037
 * *[rdf-schema#comment](../../nt/rdf-schema#comment.md)* = Due to its unique lineage and distinct function, this is not a type of dendritic cell; CL:0000451.
 * *[rdf-schema#label](../../el/rdf-schema#label.md)* = follicular dendritic cell

## Usage

 * -
 * [follicular dendritic cell](../../CL/42/CL_0000442.md) SubClassOf [defensive cell](../../CL/73/CL_0000473.md)

## External Comments

