
## Class : spinotrapezius muscle

 * *IRI* = http://purl.obolibrary.org/obo/UBERON_0014800
 * *Label* = spinotrapezius muscle
 * *Definition* = Spinotrapezius, also called thoracic trapezius, is the most posterior of the three trapezius muscles. It is triangular shaped. Posterior to the acromiotrapezius and overlaps latissimus dorsi on the front. Its origin is the neural spines of the thoracic vertebrae and its insertion is the scapular fascia. Its action is to draw the scapula to the dorsal and caudal regions. [ [database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md) = http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cat_anatomy#Spinotrapezius ]

## Synonyms

 * spinotrapezius
 * thoracic trapezius
 * thoracic trapezius muscle

## Cross-references


## Subsets


## Superclasses

 * [trapezius muscle](../../UBERON/80/UBERON_0002380.md)
 * [scapular muscle](../../UBERON/08/UBERON_0034908.md)
 * [has muscle origin](../../RO/72/RO_0002372.md) some [neural spine](../../UBERON/76/UBERON_0001076.md)
 * [has_muscle_insertion](../../RO/73/RO_0002373.md) some [scapula](../../UBERON/49/UBERON_0006849.md)

## Equivalencies


## Other Logical Axioms


## Other Annotations

 * *[definition](../../IAO/15/IAO_0000115.md)* = Spinotrapezius, also called thoracic trapezius, is the most posterior of the three trapezius muscles. It is triangular shaped. Posterior to the acromiotrapezius and overlaps latissimus dorsi on the front. Its origin is the neural spines of the thoracic vertebrae and its insertion is the scapular fascia. Its action is to draw the scapula to the dorsal and caudal regions.
 * *[present_in_taxon](../../RO/75/RO_0002175.md)* = http://purl.obolibrary.org/obo/NCBITaxon_9681
 * *[has_exact_synonym](../../ym/oboInOwl#hasExactSynonym.md)* = spinotrapezius
 * *[has_exact_synonym](../../ym/oboInOwl#hasExactSynonym.md)* = thoracic trapezius
 * *[has_exact_synonym](../../ym/oboInOwl#hasExactSynonym.md)* = thoracic trapezius muscle
 * *[rdf-schema#label](../../el/rdf-schema#label.md)* = spinotrapezius muscle

## Usage

 * -
 * [spinotrapezius muscle](../../UBERON/00/UBERON_0014800.md) SubClassOf [has muscle origin](../../RO/72/RO_0002372.md) some [neural spine](../../UBERON/76/UBERON_0001076.md)
 * [spinotrapezius muscle](../../UBERON/00/UBERON_0014800.md) SubClassOf [has_muscle_insertion](../../RO/73/RO_0002373.md) some [scapula](../../UBERON/49/UBERON_0006849.md)
 * [spinotrapezius muscle](../../UBERON/00/UBERON_0014800.md) SubClassOf [scapular muscle](../../UBERON/08/UBERON_0034908.md)
 * [spinotrapezius muscle](../../UBERON/00/UBERON_0014800.md) SubClassOf [trapezius muscle](../../UBERON/80/UBERON_0002380.md)

## External Comments

