
## Class : hypaxial basal fulcrum

 * *IRI* = http://purl.obolibrary.org/obo/UBERON_2002293
 * *Label* = hypaxial basal fulcrum
 * *Definition* = Basal fulcrum that is positioned at the anteroventral margin of the caudal fin. Arratia, G. 2009. Identifying patterns of diversity of the actinopterygian fulcra. Acta Zoologica (Stockholm) 90 (Suppl. 1): 220-235. [ [database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md) = PSPUB:0000171, [database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md) = TAO:wd ]

## Synonyms

 * hypaxial basal fulcra [ [database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md) = TAO:0002293, [has_synonym_type](../../pe/oboInOwl#hasSynonymType.md) = http://purl.obolibrary.org/obo/core#PLURAL ]
 * ventral basal fulcra [ [database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md) = TAO:0002293, [has_synonym_type](../../pe/oboInOwl#hasSynonymType.md) = http://purl.obolibrary.org/obo/core#PLURAL ]
 * ventral basal fulcrum [ [database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md) = TAO:0002293 ]

## Cross-references


## Subsets


## Superclasses

 * [basal fulcrum](../../UBERON/82/UBERON_2002082.md)

## Equivalencies


## Other Logical Axioms


## Other Annotations

 * *[definition](../../IAO/15/IAO_0000115.md)* = Basal fulcrum that is positioned at the anteroventral margin of the caudal fin. Arratia, G. 2009. Identifying patterns of diversity of the actinopterygian fulcra. Acta Zoologica (Stockholm) 90 (Suppl. 1): 220-235.
 * *[core#provenance_notes](../../core#provenance/es/core#provenance_notes.md)* = This class was sourced from an external ontology (teleost_anatomy). Its definitions, naming conventions and relationships may need to be checked for compatibility with uberon
 * *[oboInOwl#created_by](../../oboInOwl#created/by/oboInOwl#created_by.md)* = teleost_anatomy_curators
 * *[has_exact_synonym](../../ym/oboInOwl#hasExactSynonym.md)* = hypaxial basal fulcra
 * *[has_exact_synonym](../../ym/oboInOwl#hasExactSynonym.md)* = ventral basal fulcra
 * *[has_exact_synonym](../../ym/oboInOwl#hasExactSynonym.md)* = ventral basal fulcrum
 * *[rdf-schema#label](../../el/rdf-schema#label.md)* = hypaxial basal fulcrum

## Usage

 * -
 * [hypaxial basal fulcrum](../../UBERON/93/UBERON_2002293.md) SubClassOf [basal fulcrum](../../UBERON/82/UBERON_2002082.md)

## External Comments

