
## Class : telencephalon

 * *IRI* = http://purl.obolibrary.org/obo/UBERON_0001893
 * *Label* = telencephalon
 * *Definition* = The telencephalon is the name for a large region within the brain that is attributed many functions. Many people refer to it as the cerebrum; however, it is technically referred to as the telencephalon. As a more technical definition, the telencephalon refers to the cerebral hemispheres and other, smaller structures within the brain, although the telencephalon is one of the larger divisions (in terms of number). It is the anterior-most embryological division of the brain that develops from the prosencephalon. The telencephalon is composed of the following sub-regions; Limbic system; Cerebral cortex or cortices of the cerebral hemispheres, Basal ganglia, Olfactory bulb. The telencephalon comprises what most people think of as the 'brain'. It lies on top of the brainstem and is the largest and most well-developed of the five major divisions of the brain. The telencephalon is the newest structure in the phylogenetic sense, with mammals having the largest and most well-developed among all species. It emerges from the prosencephalon, the first of three vesicles that form from the embryonic neural tube (Christine Fennema-Notestine). [ [database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md) = NIF_GrossAnatomy:birnlex_1115 ]

## Synonyms

 * cerebrum [ [database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md) = http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Talk:Cerebrum ]
 * endbrain [ [database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md) = Swanson:2004 ]
 * supratentorial region [ [database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md) = http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Tentorium_cerebelli ]
 * cell bridges of the ventral striatum [ [database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md) = BAMS:CB ]

## Cross-references

 * AAO:0010479
 * ABA:CH
 * BAMS:CB
 * BAMS:CH
 * BAMS:IV
 * BAMS:Tel
 * BM:Tel
 * BTO:0000239
 * CALOHA:TS-1018
 * EFO:0000912
 * EHDAA2:0001982
 * EMAPA:16652
 * EMAPA:16910
 * EV:0100165
 * FMA:62000
 * GAID:621
 * MA:0000183
 * MAT:0000421
 * MESH:A08.186.211.730.885
 * MIAA:0000421
 * NIF_GrossAnatomy:birnlex_1115
 * NeuroNames:31 [ [oboInOwl#source](../../ce/oboInOwl#source.md) = NIF_GrossAnatomy:birnlex_1115 ]
 * SCTID:263353005
 * TAO:0000079
 * UMLS:C0039452 [ [oboInOwl#source](../../ce/oboInOwl#source.md) = NIF_GrossAnatomy:birnlex_1115 ]
 * VHOG:0000283
 * Wikipedia:Telencephalon
 * XAO:0000012
 * ZFA:0000079

## Subsets

 * http://purl.obolibrary.org/obo/uberon/core#efo_slim
 * http://purl.obolibrary.org/obo/uberon/core#uberon_slim
 * http://purl.obolibrary.org/obo/uberon/core#vertebrate_core

## Superclasses

 * [regional part of forebrain](../../UBERON/80/UBERON_0002780.md)
 * [structure with developmental contribution from neural crest](../../UBERON/14/UBERON_0010314.md)
 * [part_of](../../BFO/50/BFO_0000050.md) some [forebrain](../../UBERON/90/UBERON_0001890.md)
 * [develops from](../../RO/02/RO_0002202.md) some [future telencephalon](../../UBERON/71/UBERON_0014371.md)

## Equivalencies


## Other Logical Axioms


## Other Annotations

 * *[external_definition](../../UBPROP/01/UBPROP_0000001.md)* = Organ component of neuraxis that has as its parts the cerebral cortex, cerebral white matter, basal ganglia, septum and fornix, as well as subcortical gray and white matter structures[FMA:62000].
 * *[external_definition](../../UBPROP/01/UBPROP_0000001.md)* = Part of the forebrain consisting of paired olfactory bulbs and cerebral hemispheres.[AAO]
 * *[external_definition](../../UBPROP/01/UBPROP_0000001.md)* = The anterior and dorsal forebrain neuromere, includes the olfactory bulb. Kimmel et al, 1995.[TAO]
 * *[axiom_lost_from_external_ontology](../../UBPROP/02/UBPROP_0000002.md)* = relationship loss: develops_from presumptive telencephalon (TAO:0000571)[TAO]
 * *[homology_notes](../../UBPROP/03/UBPROP_0000003.md)* = From an evolutionary standpoint, the telencephalon is the most recent brain structure: the amphioxus does not have this structure as a morphological entity. Overt telencephalon is present in the hagfish and lamprey to receive numerous input fibers from various parts of the CNS, similar to gnathostomes.[well established][VHOG]
 * *[has_relational_adjective](../../UBPROP/07/UBPROP_0000007.md)* = cerebral
 * *[has_relational_adjective](../../UBPROP/07/UBPROP_0000007.md)* = telenencephalic
 * *[taxon_notes](../../UBPROP/08/UBPROP_0000008.md)* = In mammals the cortex covers almost the whole of the cerebral hemispheres.
 * *[taxon_notes](../../UBPROP/08/UBPROP_0000008.md)* = In ray-finned fishes the inner surfaces of the lateral and ventral regions of the cerebrum bulge up into the ventricles.
 * *[taxon_notes](../../UBPROP/08/UBPROP_0000008.md)* = In the amniotes, the cerebrum becomes increasingly large and complex. In reptiles, the paleopallium is much larger than in amphibians, and its growth has pushed the basal nuclei into the central regions of the cerebrum.
 * *[taxon_notes](../../UBPROP/08/UBPROP_0000008.md)* = In the most primitive living vertebrates, the hagfishes and lampreys, the cerebrum is a relatively simple structure receiving nerve impulses from the olfactory bulb.
 * *[taxon_notes](../../UBPROP/08/UBPROP_0000008.md)* = The cerebrum of birds has evolved along different lines to that of mammals, although they are similarly enlarged, by comparison with reptiles. However, this enlargement is largely due to the basal ganglia, with the other areas remaining relatively primitive in structure.
 * *[taxon_notes](../../UBPROP/08/UBPROP_0000008.md)* = dolphins are the only species (other than humans) to have cerebra accounting for as much as 2 percent of their body weight.
 * *[homologous_in](../../core#homologous/in/core#homologous_in.md)* = http://purl.obolibrary.org/obo/NCBITaxon_7742

## Usage


## External Comments

