
## Class : glial cell (sensu Vertebrata)

 * *IRI* = http://purl.obolibrary.org/obo/CL_0000243
 * *Label* = glial cell (sensu Vertebrata)
 * *Definition* = A non-neuronal cell of the nervous system. They not only provide physical support, but also respond to injury, regulate the ionic and chemical composition of the extracellular milieu. Form the myelin insulation of nervous pathways, guide neuronal migration during development, and exchange metabolites with neurons. Neuroglia have high-affinity transmitter uptake systems, voltage-dependent and transmitter-gated ion channels, and can release transmitters, but their role in signaling (as in many other functions) is unclear. [ [database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md) = MESH:A08.637 ]

## Synonyms


## Cross-references


## Subsets


## Superclasses

 * [glial cell](../../CL/25/CL_0000125.md)
 * [develops_from](../../RO/02/RO_0002202.md) some [glioblast (sensu Vertebrata)](../../CL/39/CL_0000339.md)

## Equivalencies


## Other Logical Axioms


## Other Annotations

 * *[definition](../../IAO/15/IAO_0000115.md)* = A non-neuronal cell of the nervous system. They not only provide physical support, but also respond to injury, regulate the ionic and chemical composition of the extracellular milieu. Form the myelin insulation of nervous pathways, guide neuronal migration during development, and exchange metabolites with neurons. Neuroglia have high-affinity transmitter uptake systems, voltage-dependent and transmitter-gated ion channels, and can release transmitters, but their role in signaling (as in many other functions) is unclear.
 * *[rdf-schema#label](../../el/rdf-schema#label.md)* = glial cell (sensu Vertebrata)

## Usage

 * -
 * [Schwann cell](../../CL/73/CL_0002573.md) SubClassOf [glial cell (sensu Vertebrata)](../../CL/43/CL_0000243.md)
 * [glial cell (sensu Vertebrata)](../../CL/43/CL_0000243.md) SubClassOf [develops_from](../../RO/02/RO_0002202.md) some [glioblast (sensu Vertebrata)](../../CL/39/CL_0000339.md)
 * [glial cell (sensu Vertebrata)](../../CL/43/CL_0000243.md) SubClassOf [glial cell](../../CL/25/CL_0000125.md)
 * [macroglial cell](../../CL/26/CL_0000126.md) SubClassOf [glial cell (sensu Vertebrata)](../../CL/43/CL_0000243.md)
 * [microglial cell](../../CL/29/CL_0000129.md) SubClassOf [glial cell (sensu Vertebrata)](../../CL/43/CL_0000243.md)
 * [perineuronal satellite cell](../../CL/16/CL_0000516.md) SubClassOf [glial cell (sensu Vertebrata)](../../CL/43/CL_0000243.md)
 * [radial glial cell](../../CL/81/CL_0000681.md) SubClassOf [glial cell (sensu Vertebrata)](../../CL/43/CL_0000243.md)

## External Comments

