
## Class : chlamydospore

 * *IRI* = http://purl.obolibrary.org/obo/CL_0000726
 * *Label* = chlamydospore
 * *Definition* = An asexual 1-celled spore (primarily for perennation, not dissemination). Originates endogenously and singly within part of a pre-existing cell by the contraction of the protoplast. Possesses an inner secondary and often thickened hyaline or brown wall, usually impregnated with hydrophobic material. [ [database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md) = GOC:tfm, [database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md) = ISBN:085199377X ]
 * *Comment* = Considering obsoleting as sometimes used to refer to protozoans too. But reference indicates term was intended for fungus.

## Synonyms


## Cross-references


## Subsets


## Superclasses

 * [fungal asexual spore](../../CL/05/CL_0000605.md)

## Equivalencies


## Other Logical Axioms


## Other Annotations

 * *[definition](../../IAO/15/IAO_0000115.md)* = An asexual 1-celled spore (primarily for perennation, not dissemination). Originates endogenously and singly within part of a pre-existing cell by the contraction of the protoplast. Possesses an inner secondary and often thickened hyaline or brown wall, usually impregnated with hydrophobic material.
 * *[rdf-schema#comment](../../nt/rdf-schema#comment.md)* = Considering obsoleting as sometimes used to refer to protozoans too. But reference indicates term was intended for fungus.
 * *[rdf-schema#label](../../el/rdf-schema#label.md)* = chlamydospore

## Usage

 * -
 * [chlamydospore](../../CL/26/CL_0000726.md) SubClassOf [fungal asexual spore](../../CL/05/CL_0000605.md)

## External Comments

