
## Class : substantia propria of cornea

 * *IRI* = http://purl.obolibrary.org/obo/UBERON_0001777
 * *Label* = substantia propria of cornea
 * *Definition* = The substantia propria (or stroma of cornea) is fibrous, tough, unyielding, and perfectly transparent. It is composed of about 200 flattened lamell¾ (plates of collagen fibrils), superimposed one on another. They are each about 1.5-2.5 micrometres in thickness. These fibrils run at different angles between the limbi. Fibres of the layers frequently interweave, the anterior lamell¾ interweaving more than posterior lamell¾. The fibres of each lamella are parallel with one another, but at right angles to those of adjacent lamell¾. The lamell¾ are produced by keratocytes (corneal corpuscles), which occupy about 10% of the substantia propria. These lamell¾ are made up of bundles of modified connective tissue, the fibres of which are directly continuous with those of the sclera. More collagen fibres run in a temporal-nasal direction than run in the superior-inferior direction. This is often ignored by corneal transplant surgeons, leading to poor corneal mechanical strength in corneal transplant patients. [WP,unvetted]. [ [database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md) = Wikipedia:Corneal_stroma ]
 * *Comment* = This class was created automatically from a combination of ontologies

## Synonyms

 * cornea stroma
 * corneal stroma
 * stroma of cornea
 * substantia propria

## Cross-references

 * CALOHA:TS-1138
 * EFO:0002514
 * EMAPA:17602
 * FMA:58306
 * GAID:893
 * MA:0001245
 * MESH:A09.371.060.217.228
 * SCTID:362511000
 * TAO:0002189
 * UMLS:C0010040 [ [oboInOwl#source](../../ce/oboInOwl#source.md) = ncithesaurus:Corneal_Stroma ]
 * Wikipedia:Corneal_stroma
 * ZFA:0001685
 * http://upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/6/66/Gray871.png/200px-Gray871.png
 * ncithesaurus:Corneal_Stroma

## Subsets

 * http://purl.obolibrary.org/obo/uberon/core#efo_slim
 * http://purl.obolibrary.org/obo/uberon/core#uberon_slim
 * http://purl.obolibrary.org/obo/uberon/core#vertebrate_core

## Superclasses

 * [head connective tissue](../../UBERON/66/UBERON_0003566.md)
 * [stroma](../../UBERON/91/UBERON_0003891.md)
 * [neural crest-derived structure](../../UBERON/13/UBERON_0010313.md)
 * [part_of](../../BFO/50/BFO_0000050.md) some [cornea](../../UBERON/64/UBERON_0000964.md)
 * [develops from](../../RO/02/RO_0002202.md) some [neural crest](../../UBERON/42/UBERON_0002342.md)

## Equivalencies

 * [part_of](../../BFO/50/BFO_0000050.md) some [cornea](../../UBERON/64/UBERON_0000964.md) and [stroma](../../UBERON/91/UBERON_0003891.md)

## Other Logical Axioms


## Other Annotations

 * *[external_definition](../../UBPROP/01/UBPROP_0000001.md)* = Portion of tissue that is located basal to Bowman's layer and distal to Descemet's membrane and is comprised largely of connective tissue.[TAO]
 * *[axiom_lost_from_external_ontology](../../UBPROP/02/UBPROP_0000002.md)* = relationship type change: subclass tissue (CARO:0000043) CHANGED TO: develops_from tissue (UBERON:0000479)[TAO]
 * *[axiom_lost_from_external_ontology](../../UBPROP/02/UBPROP_0000002.md)* = relationship type change: subclass tissue (CARO:0000043) CHANGED TO: has_developmental_contribution_from tissue (UBERON:0000479)[TAO]

## Usage


## External Comments

