
## Class : presumptive hindbrain

 * *IRI* = http://purl.obolibrary.org/obo/UBERON_0007277
 * *Label* = presumptive hindbrain
 * *Definition* = The rhombencephalon (or hindbrain) is a developmental categorization of portions of the central nervous system in vertebrates. The rhombencephalon can be subdivided in a variable number of transversal swellings called rhombomeres. In the human embryo eight rhombomeres can be distinguished, from caudal to rostral: Rh7-Rh1 and the isthmus (the most rostral rhombomere). A rare disease of the rhombencephalon, 'rhombencephalosynapsis' is characterized by a missing vermis resulting in a fused cerebellum. Patients generally present with cerebellar ataxia. The caudal rhombencephalon has been generally considered as the initiation site for neural tube closure. [[database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md) =  + Wikipedia:Rhombencephalon]
 * *Comment* = TODO - unify naming conventions

## Synonyms

 * embryonic rhombencephalon [[database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md) =  + CALOHA:TS-2118]
 * future hindbrain [[database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md) =  + https://orcid.org/0000-0002-6601-2165]
 * rhombencephalon [[database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md) =  + EHDAA2:0001630]

## Cross-references

 * BAMS:HB
 * CALOHA:TS-2118
 * EFO:0003440
 * EHDAA2:0001630
 * TAO:0000569
 * Wikipedia:Rhombencephalon
 * ZFA:0000569

## Subsets

 * http://purl.obolibrary.org/obo/uberon/core#efo_slim

## Superclasses

 * [presumptive structure](../../UBERON/98/UBERON_0006598.md)
 * [part_of](../../BFO/50/BFO_0000050.md) some [future brain](../../UBERON/38/UBERON_0006238.md)
 * [develops from](../../RO/02/RO_0002202.md) some [posterior neural tube](../../UBERON/76/UBERON_0003076.md)
 * [has potential to develop into](../../RO/87/RO_0002387.md) some [hindbrain](../../UBERON/28/UBERON_0002028.md)

## Equivalencies

 * ObjectIntersectionOf(<http://purl.obolibrary.org/obo/UBERON_0006598> ObjectSomeValuesFrom(<http://purl.obolibrary.org/obo/RO_0002387> <http://purl.obolibrary.org/obo/UBERON_0002028>))

## Other Logical Axioms


## Other Annotations

 * *[external_definition](../../UBPROP/01/UBPROP_0000001.md)* = The embryonic rhombencephalon can be subdivided in a variable number of transversal swellings called rhombomeres. Rhombomeres Rh7-Rh4 form the myelencephalon that will give the medulla oblongata. Rhombomeres Rh3-Rh1 form the metencephalon that will form the pons and the cerebellum[NPX:PDR].
 * *[has_obo_namespace](../../ce/oboInOwl#hasOBONamespace.md)* = uberon
 * *[oboInOwl#id](../../id/oboInOwl#id.md)* = UBERON:0007277

## External Comments

