
## Class : loop of Henle

 * *IRI* = http://purl.obolibrary.org/obo/UBERON_0001288
 * *Label* = loop of Henle
 * *Definition* = Portion of the nephron that leads from the proximal convoluted tubule to the distal convoluted tubule. The loop has a hairpin bend in the renal medulla. The main function of this structure is to create a concentration gradient in the medulla of the kidney. By means of a countercurrent multiplier system, which utilizes sodium pumps, it creates an area of high sodium concentration deep in the medulla, near the collecting duct. Water present in the filtrate in the collecting duct flows through aquaporin channels out of the collecting duct, moving passively down its concentration gradient. This process reabsorbs water and creates a concentrated urine for excretion[WP]. [ [database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md) = Wikipedia:Loop_of_Henle ]
 * *Comment* = Note that the definitions of some kidney parts refer to Henle's loop, even in species where this may not be present. Requires review.

## Synonyms

 * Henle loop
 * ansa nephroni [ [database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md) = Wikipedia:Loop_of_Henle ]
 * henle's loop

## Cross-references

 * BTO:0004608
 * EMAPA:29665
 * EMAPA:29679
 * EV:0100390
 * FMA:17698
 * GAID:437
 * MA:0001675
 * MESH:A05.810.453.736.560.610
 * SCTID:361335009
 * UMLS:C0023986 [ [oboInOwl#source](../../ce/oboInOwl#source.md) = ncithesaurus:Loop_of_Henle ]
 * VHOG:0001270
 * Wikipedia:Loop_of_Henle
 * http://upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/2/27/Gray1128.png
 * http://upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/2/27/Gray1128.png/200px-Gray1128.png
 * ncithesaurus:Loop_of_Henle

## Subsets

 * http://purl.obolibrary.org/obo/uberon/core#uberon_slim

## Superclasses

 * [region of nephron tubule](../../UBERON/85/UBERON_0007685.md)
 * [continuous_with](../../FMA/72/FMA_85972.md) some [proximal convoluted tubule](../../UBERON/87/UBERON_0001287.md)
 * [continuous_with](../../FMA/72/FMA_85972.md) some [distal convoluted tubule](../../UBERON/92/UBERON_0001292.md)

## Equivalencies

 * [continuous_with](../../FMA/72/FMA_85972.md) some [distal convoluted tubule](../../UBERON/92/UBERON_0001292.md) and [continuous_with](../../FMA/72/FMA_85972.md) some [proximal convoluted tubule](../../UBERON/87/UBERON_0001287.md) and [region of nephron tubule](../../UBERON/85/UBERON_0007685.md)

## Other Logical Axioms


## Other Annotations

 * *[external_definition](../../UBPROP/01/UBPROP_0000001.md)* = A highly specialized segment of the mammalian kidney tubules, that dips into the medulla. [Bemis_WE, Functional_Anatomy_of_the_Vertebrates:_An_Evolutionary_Perspective, Grande_L, Third_Edition_(2001)_Orlando_Fla.:_Harcourt_College_Publishers, Walker_WF, p.648, see_Liem_KF][VHOG]
 * *[homologous_in](../../core#homologous/in/core#homologous_in.md)* = http://purl.obolibrary.org/obo/NCBITaxon_7742

## Usage


## External Comments

