
## Class : epaxial basal fulcrum

 * *IRI* = http://purl.obolibrary.org/obo/UBERON_2002292
 * *Label* = epaxial basal fulcrum
 * *Definition* = Basal fulcrum that is positioned at the dorsal or anterodorsal margin of the caudal fin. Arratia, G. 2009. Identifying patterns of diversity of the actinopterygian fulcra. Acta Zoologica (Stockholm) 90 (Suppl. 1): 220-235. [ [database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md) = PSPUB:0000171, [database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md) = TAO:wd ]

## Synonyms

 * dorsal basal fulcrum [ [database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md) = TAO:0002292 ]
 * dorsal basal fulcra [ [database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md) = TAO:0002292, [has_synonym_type](../../pe/oboInOwl#hasSynonymType.md) = http://purl.obolibrary.org/obo/core#PLURAL ]
 * epaxial basal fulcra [ [database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md) = TAO:0002292, [has_synonym_type](../../pe/oboInOwl#hasSynonymType.md) = http://purl.obolibrary.org/obo/core#PLURAL ]

## Cross-references


## Subsets


## Superclasses

 * [basal fulcrum](../../UBERON/82/UBERON_2002082.md)

## Equivalencies


## Other Logical Axioms


## Other Annotations

 * *[definition](../../IAO/15/IAO_0000115.md)* = Basal fulcrum that is positioned at the dorsal or anterodorsal margin of the caudal fin. Arratia, G. 2009. Identifying patterns of diversity of the actinopterygian fulcra. Acta Zoologica (Stockholm) 90 (Suppl. 1): 220-235.
 * *[core#provenance_notes](../../core#provenance/es/core#provenance_notes.md)* = This class was sourced from an external ontology (teleost_anatomy). Its definitions, naming conventions and relationships may need to be checked for compatibility with uberon
 * *[oboInOwl#created_by](../../oboInOwl#created/by/oboInOwl#created_by.md)* = teleost_anatomy_curators
 * *[has_exact_synonym](../../ym/oboInOwl#hasExactSynonym.md)* = dorsal basal fulcrum
 * *[has_related_synonym](../../ym/oboInOwl#hasRelatedSynonym.md)* = dorsal basal fulcra
 * *[has_related_synonym](../../ym/oboInOwl#hasRelatedSynonym.md)* = epaxial basal fulcra
 * *[rdf-schema#label](../../el/rdf-schema#label.md)* = epaxial basal fulcrum

## Usage

 * -
 * [epaxial basal fulcrum](../../UBERON/92/UBERON_2002292.md) SubClassOf [basal fulcrum](../../UBERON/82/UBERON_2002082.md)

## External Comments

