
## Class : median premaxilla

 * *IRI* = http://purl.obolibrary.org/obo/UBERON_2001692
 * *Label* = median premaxilla
 * *Definition* = Dermal bone that is located in the middle of the upper jaw, independently formed by fusion of tooth bases attached to soft tissue in the middle portion of the upper lip. The median premaxilla bears teeth in adults. [ [database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md) = TAO:wd ]
 * *Comment* = Recorded in trichomycterid subfamilies Stegophilinae and Vandelliinae (Baskin, 1973). submitted by Mario de Pinna.

## Synonyms


## Cross-references


## Subsets


## Superclasses

 * [dermal bone](../../UBERON/07/UBERON_0008907.md)
 * [part_of](../../BFO/50/BFO_0000050.md) some [dermatocranium](../../UBERON/13/UBERON_0003113.md)

## Equivalencies


## Other Logical Axioms


## Other Annotations

 * *[definition](../../IAO/15/IAO_0000115.md)* = Dermal bone that is located in the middle of the upper jaw, independently formed by fusion of tooth bases attached to soft tissue in the middle portion of the upper lip. The median premaxilla bears teeth in adults.
 * *[core#provenance_notes](../../core#provenance/es/core#provenance_notes.md)* = This class was sourced from an external ontology (teleost_anatomy). Its definitions, naming conventions and relationships may need to be checked for compatibility with uberon
 * *[oboInOwl#created_by](../../oboInOwl#created/by/oboInOwl#created_by.md)* = teleost_anatomy_curators
 * *[rdf-schema#comment](../../nt/rdf-schema#comment.md)* = Recorded in trichomycterid subfamilies Stegophilinae and Vandelliinae (Baskin, 1973). submitted by Mario de Pinna.
 * *[rdf-schema#label](../../el/rdf-schema#label.md)* = median premaxilla

## Usage

 * -
 * [median premaxilla](../../UBERON/92/UBERON_2001692.md) SubClassOf [dermal bone](../../UBERON/07/UBERON_0008907.md)
 * [median premaxilla](../../UBERON/92/UBERON_2001692.md) SubClassOf [part_of](../../BFO/50/BFO_0000050.md) some [dermatocranium](../../UBERON/13/UBERON_0003113.md)

## External Comments

