
## Class : nasolacrimal duct

 * *IRI* = http://purl.obolibrary.org/obo/UBERON_0002392
 * *Label* = nasolacrimal duct
 * *Definition* = The nasolacrimal duct (sometimes called tear duct) carries tears from the lacrimal sac into the nasal cavity. Excess tears flow through nasolacrimal duct which opens in the nose. This is the reason the nose starts to run when a person is crying or has watery eyes from an allergy, and why one can sometimes taste eye drops. Like the lacrimal sac, the duct is lined by stratified columnar epithelium containing mucus-secreting goblet cells, and is surrounded by connective tissue. Obstruction of the nasolacrimal duct leads to the excess overflow of tears called epiphora. A congenital obstruction can cause cystic expansion of the duct and is called a dacrocystocele or Timo cyst. Persons with dry eye conditions can be fitted with punctal plugs that seal the ducts to limit the amount of fluid drainage and retain moisture. The canal containing the nasolacrimal duct is called the nasolacrimal canal. [WP,unvetted]. [ [database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md) = Wikipedia:Nasolacrimal_duct ]
 * *Comment* = todo - resolve canaliculus vs tear duct vs lacrimal vs nasolacrimal

## Synonyms

 * nasolacrimal duct - posterior naris [ [database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md) = VHOG:0000664 ]
 * d. nasolacrimalis [ [database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md) = Wikipedia:Nasolacrimal_duct, [has_synonym_type](../../pe/oboInOwl#hasSynonymType.md) = http://purl.obolibrary.org/obo/uberon/core#LATIN ]

## Cross-references

 * AAO:0000643
 * EHDAA2:0001237
 * EHDAA:7849
 * EHDAA:9094
 * EMAPA:17853
 * FMA:9703
 * GAID:902
 * MA:0001299
 * MESH:A09.371.463.640
 * OpenCyc:Mx4rv6PJy5wpEbGdrcN5Y29ycA
 * SCTID:280643009
 * UMLS:C0027437 [ [oboInOwl#source](../../ce/oboInOwl#source.md) = ncithesaurus:Nasolacrimal_Duct ]
 * VHOG:0000664
 * Wikipedia:Nasolacrimal_duct
 * http://upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/c/cf/Gray896.png
 * http://upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/c/cf/Gray896.png/200px-Gray896.png
 * ncithesaurus:Nasolacrimal_Duct

## Subsets

 * http://purl.obolibrary.org/obo/uberon/core#uberon_slim

## Superclasses

 * [duct](../../UBERON/58/UBERON_0000058.md)
 * [ectoderm-derived structure](../../UBERON/21/UBERON_0004121.md)
 * [structure with developmental contribution from neural crest](../../UBERON/14/UBERON_0010314.md)
 * [part_of](../../BFO/50/BFO_0000050.md) some [lacrimal duct](../../UBERON/50/UBERON_0001850.md)
 * [develops from](../../RO/02/RO_0002202.md) some [nasolacrimal groove](../../UBERON/66/UBERON_0006266.md)

## Equivalencies


## Other Logical Axioms


## Other Annotations

 * *[homology_notes](../../UBPROP/03/UBPROP_0000003.md)* = The nasolacrimal duct is probably homologous to the posterior (excurrent) naris of actinopterygian fishes.[uncertain][VHOG]
 * *[homologous_in](../../core#homologous/in/core#homologous_in.md)* = http://purl.obolibrary.org/obo/NCBITaxon_7742

## Usage


## External Comments

