
## Class : nephric ridge

 * *IRI* = http://purl.obolibrary.org/obo/UBERON_0005792
 * *Label* = nephric ridge
 * *Definition* = Nephric tubules (nephrons) form embryonically along the nephric ridge. The ridge comprises three regions; anterior, middle and posterior. The functional kidney uses nephrons from only one or two regions of the ridge. A pronephric kidney uses only the nephrons from the anterior region of the ridge. A mesonephric kidney uses only the middle region, a metanephric kidney uses only the posterior region and an opisthonephric kidney uses the middle and posterior regions.  [ [database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md) = http://cwx.prenhall.com/bookbind/pubbooks/martini10/chapter27/custom2/deluxe-content.html ]

## Synonyms

 * nephric cord [ [database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md) = VHOG:0001240 ]

## Cross-references

 * EHDAA2:0001242
 * EHDAA:1015
 * EMAPA:16368
 * VHOG:0001240

## Subsets


## Superclasses

 * [developing anatomical structure](../../UBERON/23/UBERON_0005423.md)
 * [part_of](../../BFO/50/BFO_0000050.md) some [embryo](../../UBERON/22/UBERON_0000922.md)
 * [part_of](../../BFO/50/BFO_0000050.md) some [renal system](../../UBERON/08/UBERON_0001008.md)
 * [part_of](../../BFO/50/BFO_0000050.md) some [genitourinary system](../../UBERON/22/UBERON_0004122.md)

## Equivalencies


## Other Logical Axioms


## Other Annotations

 * *[definition](../../IAO/15/IAO_0000115.md)* = Nephric tubules (nephrons) form embryonically along the nephric ridge. The ridge comprises three regions; anterior, middle and posterior. The functional kidney uses nephrons from only one or two regions of the ridge. A pronephric kidney uses only the nephrons from the anterior region of the ridge. A mesonephric kidney uses only the middle region, a metanephric kidney uses only the posterior region and an opisthonephric kidney uses the middle and posterior regions. 
 * *[editor note](../../IAO/16/IAO_0000116.md)* = TODO - check ridge vs cord vs nephrogenic cord vs blastema
 * *[database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md)* = EHDAA2:0001242
 * *[database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md)* = EHDAA:1015
 * *[database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md)* = EMAPA:16368
 * *[database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md)* = VHOG:0001240
 * *[has_related_synonym](../../ym/oboInOwl#hasRelatedSynonym.md)* = nephric cord
 * *[rdf-schema#label](../../el/rdf-schema#label.md)* = nephric ridge

## Usage

 * -
 * [mesonephric duct](../../UBERON/74/UBERON_0003074.md) SubClassOf [develops_from](../../RO/02/RO_0002202.md) some [nephric ridge](../../UBERON/92/UBERON_0005792.md)
 * [nephric ridge](../../UBERON/92/UBERON_0005792.md) SubClassOf [developing anatomical structure](../../UBERON/23/UBERON_0005423.md)
 * [nephric ridge](../../UBERON/92/UBERON_0005792.md) SubClassOf [part_of](../../BFO/50/BFO_0000050.md) some [embryo](../../UBERON/22/UBERON_0000922.md)
 * [nephric ridge](../../UBERON/92/UBERON_0005792.md) SubClassOf [part_of](../../BFO/50/BFO_0000050.md) some [genitourinary system](../../UBERON/22/UBERON_0004122.md)
 * [nephric ridge](../../UBERON/92/UBERON_0005792.md) SubClassOf [part_of](../../BFO/50/BFO_0000050.md) some [renal system](../../UBERON/08/UBERON_0001008.md)

## External Comments

