
## Class : branchiostegal ray

 * *IRI* = http://purl.obolibrary.org/obo/UBERON_2000476
 * *Label* = branchiostegal ray
 * *Definition* = Dermal bone that is a flattened element that supports the branchiostegal membrane. Branchiostegal rays are generally present in a series articulating ventrally or ventro-medially with the anterior and posterior ceratobranchials whereas the most posterior ray articulates with the subopercle. The branchiostegal ray is paired. [ [database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md) = ZFIN:curator ]
 * *Comment* = Although the branchiostegals are articulated or attached to the hyoid arch, they belong to the opercular series. Branchiostegal rays are of variable shape and number and their homology is problematic. Usually they are numbered from anterior to posterior elements, instead from posterior to anteriorly considering that the last element of the series is consistently associated to the subopercle. For a survey of branchiostegal rays see Mc Allister (1968).

## Synonyms

 * branchiostegal rays [ [database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md) = TAO:0000476, [has_synonym_type](../../pe/oboInOwl#hasSynonymType.md) = http://purl.obolibrary.org/obo/core#PLURAL ]

## Cross-references

 * ZFA:0000476

## Subsets


## Superclasses

 * [mixed ectoderm/mesoderm/endoderm-derived structure](../../UBERON/78/UBERON_0000078.md)
 * [dermal bone](../../UBERON/07/UBERON_0008907.md)
 * [part_of](../../BFO/50/BFO_0000050.md) some [ventral hyoid arch skeleton](../../UBERON/53/UBERON_0011153.md)
 * [part_of](../../BFO/50/BFO_0000050.md) some [opercular series](../../UBERON/75/UBERON_2001875.md)
 * [part_of](../../BFO/50/BFO_0000050.md) some [branchiostegal ray series](../../UBERON/01/UBERON_2002101.md)
 * [overlaps](../../RO/31/RO_0002131.md) some [epihyal-branchiostegal ray joint](../../UBERON/49/UBERON_2001849.md)
 * [overlaps](../../RO/31/RO_0002131.md) some [ceratohyal-branchiostegal ray joint](../../UBERON/50/UBERON_2001850.md)

## Equivalencies


## Other Logical Axioms


## Other Annotations

 * *[definition](../../IAO/15/IAO_0000115.md)* = Dermal bone that is a flattened element that supports the branchiostegal membrane. Branchiostegal rays are generally present in a series articulating ventrally or ventro-medially with the anterior and posterior ceratobranchials whereas the most posterior ray articulates with the subopercle. The branchiostegal ray is paired.
 * *[core#provenance_notes](../../core#provenance/es/core#provenance_notes.md)* = This class was sourced from an external ontology (teleost_anatomy). Its definitions, naming conventions and relationships may need to be checked for compatibility with uberon
 * *[oboInOwl#created_by](../../oboInOwl#created/by/oboInOwl#created_by.md)* = teleost_anatomy_curators
 * *[database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md)* = ZFA:0000476
 * *[has_exact_synonym](../../ym/oboInOwl#hasExactSynonym.md)* = branchiostegal rays
 * *[rdf-schema#comment](../../nt/rdf-schema#comment.md)* = Although the branchiostegals are articulated or attached to the hyoid arch, they belong to the opercular series. Branchiostegal rays are of variable shape and number and their homology is problematic. Usually they are numbered from anterior to posterior elements, instead from posterior to anteriorly considering that the last element of the series is consistently associated to the subopercle. For a survey of branchiostegal rays see Mc Allister (1968).
 * *[rdf-schema#label](../../el/rdf-schema#label.md)* = branchiostegal ray

## Usage

 * -
 * [branchiostegal ray 1](../../UBERON/79/UBERON_2001279.md) SubClassOf [branchiostegal ray](../../UBERON/76/UBERON_2000476.md)
 * [branchiostegal ray 2](../../UBERON/81/UBERON_2001281.md) SubClassOf [branchiostegal ray](../../UBERON/76/UBERON_2000476.md)
 * [branchiostegal ray 3](../../UBERON/80/UBERON_2001280.md) SubClassOf [branchiostegal ray](../../UBERON/76/UBERON_2000476.md)
 * [branchiostegal ray series](../../UBERON/01/UBERON_2002101.md) == [anatomical cluster](../../UBERON/77/UBERON_0000477.md) and [composed_primarily_of](../../RO/73/RO_0002473.md) some [branchiostegal ray](../../UBERON/76/UBERON_2000476.md) and [part_of](../../BFO/50/BFO_0000050.md) some [dermatocranium](../../UBERON/13/UBERON_0003113.md)
 * [branchiostegal ray series](../../UBERON/01/UBERON_2002101.md) SubClassOf [composed_primarily_of](../../RO/73/RO_0002473.md) some [branchiostegal ray](../../UBERON/76/UBERON_2000476.md)
 * [branchiostegal ray](../../UBERON/76/UBERON_2000476.md) SubClassOf [dermal bone](../../UBERON/07/UBERON_0008907.md)
 * [branchiostegal ray](../../UBERON/76/UBERON_2000476.md) SubClassOf [mixed ectoderm/mesoderm/endoderm-derived structure](../../UBERON/78/UBERON_0000078.md)
 * [branchiostegal ray](../../UBERON/76/UBERON_2000476.md) SubClassOf [overlaps](../../RO/31/RO_0002131.md) some [ceratohyal-branchiostegal ray joint](../../UBERON/50/UBERON_2001850.md)
 * [branchiostegal ray](../../UBERON/76/UBERON_2000476.md) SubClassOf [overlaps](../../RO/31/RO_0002131.md) some [epihyal-branchiostegal ray joint](../../UBERON/49/UBERON_2001849.md)
 * [branchiostegal ray](../../UBERON/76/UBERON_2000476.md) SubClassOf [part_of](../../BFO/50/BFO_0000050.md) some [branchiostegal ray series](../../UBERON/01/UBERON_2002101.md)
 * [branchiostegal ray](../../UBERON/76/UBERON_2000476.md) SubClassOf [part_of](../../BFO/50/BFO_0000050.md) some [opercular series](../../UBERON/75/UBERON_2001875.md)
 * [branchiostegal ray](../../UBERON/76/UBERON_2000476.md) SubClassOf [part_of](../../BFO/50/BFO_0000050.md) some [ventral hyoid arch skeleton](../../UBERON/53/UBERON_0011153.md)

## External Comments

