
## Class : granulosa cell

 * *IRI* = http://purl.obolibrary.org/obo/CL_0000501
 * *Label* = granulosa cell
 * *Definition* = A supporting cell for the developing female gamete in the ovary of mammals. They develop from the coelomic epithelial cells of the gonadal ridge. Granulosa cells form a single layer around the mammalian oocyte in the primordial ovarian follicle and advance to form a multilayered cumulus oophorus surrounding the ovum in the Graafian follicle. The major functions of granulosa cells include the production of steroids and LH receptors. [ [database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md) = MESH:A05.360.319.114.630.535.200 ]

## Synonyms

 * granulosa cell of ovary

## Cross-references

 * BTO:0000542
 * CALOHA:TS-0729
 * FMA:18718

## Subsets


## Superclasses

 * [steroid hormone secreting cell](../../CL/74/CL_0000174.md)
 * [follicular cell of ovary](../../CL/74/CL_0002174.md)

## Equivalencies


## Other Logical Axioms


## Other Annotations

 * *[definition](../../IAO/15/IAO_0000115.md)* = A supporting cell for the developing female gamete in the ovary of mammals. They develop from the coelomic epithelial cells of the gonadal ridge. Granulosa cells form a single layer around the mammalian oocyte in the primordial ovarian follicle and advance to form a multilayered cumulus oophorus surrounding the ovum in the Graafian follicle. The major functions of granulosa cells include the production of steroids and LH receptors.
 * *[database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md)* = BTO:0000542
 * *[database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md)* = CALOHA:TS-0729
 * *[database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md)* = FMA:18718
 * *[has_exact_synonym](../../ym/oboInOwl#hasExactSynonym.md)* = granulosa cell of ovary
 * *[rdf-schema#label](../../el/rdf-schema#label.md)* = granulosa cell

## Usage

 * -
 * [cumulus cell](../../CL/11/CL_0000711.md) SubClassOf [develops_from](../../RO/02/RO_0002202.md) some [granulosa cell](../../CL/01/CL_0000501.md)
 * [granulosa cell layer](../../UBERON/70/UBERON_0005170.md) == [cell layer](../../UBERON/19/UBERON_0000119.md) and [composed_primarily_of](../../RO/73/RO_0002473.md) some [granulosa cell](../../CL/01/CL_0000501.md) and [part_of](../../BFO/50/BFO_0000050.md) some [ovarian follicle](../../UBERON/05/UBERON_0001305.md)
 * [granulosa cell layer](../../UBERON/70/UBERON_0005170.md) SubClassOf [composed_primarily_of](../../RO/73/RO_0002473.md) some [granulosa cell](../../CL/01/CL_0000501.md)
 * [granulosa cell](../../CL/01/CL_0000501.md) SubClassOf [follicular cell of ovary](../../CL/74/CL_0002174.md)
 * [granulosa cell](../../CL/01/CL_0000501.md) SubClassOf [steroid hormone secreting cell](../../CL/74/CL_0000174.md)
 * [large luteal cell](../../CL/92/CL_0000592.md) SubClassOf [develops_from](../../RO/02/RO_0002202.md) some [granulosa cell](../../CL/01/CL_0000501.md)

## External Comments

