
## Class : jaw skeleton

 * *IRI* = http://purl.obolibrary.org/obo/UBERON_0001708
 * *Label* = jaw skeleton
 * *Definition* = Subdivision of skeleton which includes upper and lower jaw skeletons. [ [database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md) = Wikipedia:Jaw, [database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md) = https://orcid.org/0000-0002-6601-2165 ]
 * *Comment* = TODO: move ZFA:0001227 (it is the entire jaw skeleton). Editor notes: in FMA, the jaw is an organism subdivision cluster, and includes mucosal tissue such as the gingiva as parts. It appears to be skeletal in MA (and has teeth as parts). It is reasonable to assume that ZFA and XAO consider the upper and lower jaws to be skeletal elements or clusters. EHDAA2 also considers these clusters. TODO - follow EHDAA2 model. These arbitrary differences in terminology and classification have to be reconciled with the genuine well-known biological differences in the skeletal elements across vertebrates. Development notes: There are cellular contributions from all three embryonic germ layers: pharyngeal mesoderm, endoderm and neural crest that migrates out of the ectoderm (Noden, 1983).

## Synonyms

 * jaw [ [database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md) = MA:0001905 ]
 * jaw cartilage [ [database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md) = ZFA:0001227 ]
 * mandibular arch skeleton [ [database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md) = ZFA:0001227 ]
 * anterior splanchnocranium
 * jaws
 * mandibular arch [ [database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md) = TAO:0001227 ]
 * oral jaw skeleton
 * pharyngeal arch 1 skeleton
 * visceral arch 1

## Cross-references

 * AAO:0000988
 * BTO:0001749
 * FMA:54396
 * GAID:214
 * MA:0001905
 * MESH:A02.835.232.781.324.502
 * OpenCyc:Mx4rvVjjEZwpEbGdrcN5Y29ycA
 * SCTID:181811001
 * TAO:0001227
 * UMLS:C0022359 [ [oboInOwl#source](../../ce/oboInOwl#source.md) = ncithesaurus:Jaw ]
 * Wikipedia:Jaw
 * ZFA:0001227
 * galen:Jaw
 * ncithesaurus:Jaw

## Subsets

 * http://purl.obolibrary.org/obo/uberon/core#uberon_slim
 * http://purl.obolibrary.org/obo/uberon/core#vertebrate_core

## Superclasses

 * [ectoderm-derived structure](../../UBERON/21/UBERON_0004121.md)
 * [structure with developmental contribution from neural crest](../../UBERON/14/UBERON_0010314.md)
 * [subdivision of skeleton](../../UBERON/12/UBERON_0010912.md)
 * [part_of](../../BFO/50/BFO_0000050.md) some [jaw region](../../UBERON/95/UBERON_0011595.md)
 * [has_part](../../BFO/51/BFO_0000051.md) some [part_of](../../BFO/50/BFO_0000050.md) some [splanchnocranium](../../UBERON/95/UBERON_0008895.md)
 * [only_in_taxon](../../RO/60/RO_0002160.md) some [Gnathostomata <vertebrate>](../../NCBITaxon/76/NCBITaxon_7776.md)
 * [capable_of](../../RO/15/RO_0002215.md) some [chewing](../../NBO/73/NBO_0000073.md)
 * [has developmental contribution from](../../RO/54/RO_0002254.md) some [neural crest](../../UBERON/42/UBERON_0002342.md)

## Equivalencies


## Other Logical Axioms


## Other Annotations

 * *[external_definition](../../UBPROP/01/UBPROP_0000001.md)* = Skeletal and cartilage elements of the first pharyngeal arch.[TAO]

## Usage


## External Comments

