
## Class : adductor magnus

 * *IRI* = http://purl.obolibrary.org/obo/UBERON_0000370
 * *Label* = adductor magnus
 * *Definition* = An adductor muscle that attaches to the pelvic bone and the femur. In humans, the adductor magnus is a large triangular muscle, situated on the medial side of the thigh. The portion which arises from the ischiopubic ramus (a small part of the inferior ramus of the pubis, and the inferior ramus of the ischium) is called the 'adductor magnesius portion', and the portion arising from the tuberosity of the ischium is called the 'hamstring portion'. The hamstring portion is not considered part of the hamstring group of muscles, but it is adjacent to it.[WP,generalized]. [ [database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md) = http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Adductor_magnus_muscle ]

## Synonyms

 * adductor magnus muscle
 * musculus adductor magnus [ [database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md) = http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Adductor_magnus_muscle, [has_synonym_type](../../pe/oboInOwl#hasSynonymType.md) = http://purl.obolibrary.org/obo/uberon/core#LATIN ]

## Cross-references

 * AAO:0010040
 * BTO:0001312
 * EMAPA:36221
 * FMA:22443
 * OpenCyc:Mx4rvuSd6JwpEbGdrcN5Y29ycA
 * galen:AdductorMagnus
 * http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Adductor_magnus_muscle
 * http://www.snomedbrowser.com/Codes/Details/181688002

## Subsets


## Superclasses

 * [adductor muscle of hip](../../UBERON/44/UBERON_0011144.md)
 * [part_of](../../BFO/50/BFO_0000050.md) some [hindlimb stylopod](../../UBERON/76/UBERON_0000376.md)
 * [innervated_by](../../RO/05/RO_0002005.md) some [sciatic nerve](../../UBERON/22/UBERON_0001322.md)
 * [innervated_by](../../RO/05/RO_0002005.md) some [obturator nerve](../../UBERON/65/UBERON_0005465.md)
 * [has muscle origin](../../RO/72/RO_0002372.md) some [pubis](../../UBERON/75/UBERON_0001275.md)
 * [has_muscle_insertion](../../RO/73/RO_0002373.md) some [femur](../../UBERON/81/UBERON_0000981.md)

## Equivalencies


## Other Logical Axioms


## Other Annotations

 * *[definition](../../IAO/15/IAO_0000115.md)* = An adductor muscle that attaches to the pelvic bone and the femur. In humans, the adductor magnus is a large triangular muscle, situated on the medial side of the thigh. The portion which arises from the ischiopubic ramus (a small part of the inferior ramus of the pubis, and the inferior ramus of the ischium) is called the 'adductor magnesius portion', and the portion arising from the tuberosity of the ischium is called the 'hamstring portion'. The hamstring portion is not considered part of the hamstring group of muscles, but it is adjacent to it.[WP,generalized].
 * *[external_definition](../../UBPROP/01/UBPROP_0000001.md)* = Origin by two heads that are separated by a ventral tendon of the M. semitendinosus. One head originates from the ventral border of the pubic portion of the pelvic rim. The other head originates from the ischiatic border of the pelvic rim. The ventral head fuses with accessory head from the M. semitendinosus and inserts along the ventro-medial border of the femur. The dorsal belly merges with the ventral and accessory heads and inserts along the medial surface of the femur.[AAO]
 * *[external_ontology_notes](../../UBPROP/12/UBPROP_0000012.md)* = Definition generalized to accommodate AAO class - 'Origin by two heads that are separated by a ventral tendon of the M. semitendinosus. One head originates from the ventral border of the pubic portion of the pelvic rim. The other head originates from the ischiatic border of the pelvic rim. The ventral head fuses with accessory head from the M. semitendinosus and inserts along the ventro-medial border of the femur. The dorsal belly merges with the ventral and accessory heads and inserts along the medial surface of the femur.' [AAO:0010040]
 * *[database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md)* = AAO:0010040
 * *[database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md)* = BTO:0001312
 * *[database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md)* = EMAPA:36221
 * *[database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md)* = FMA:22443
 * *[database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md)* = OpenCyc:Mx4rvuSd6JwpEbGdrcN5Y29ycA
 * *[database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md)* = galen:AdductorMagnus
 * *[database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md)* = http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Adductor_magnus_muscle
 * *[database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md)* = http://www.snomedbrowser.com/Codes/Details/181688002
 * *[has_exact_synonym](../../ym/oboInOwl#hasExactSynonym.md)* = adductor magnus muscle
 * *[has_related_synonym](../../ym/oboInOwl#hasRelatedSynonym.md)* = musculus adductor magnus
 * *[rdf-schema#label](../../el/rdf-schema#label.md)* = adductor magnus
 * *[depicted_by](../../depicted/by/depicted_by.md)* = http://upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/e/e2/Anterior_Hip_Muscles_2.PNG

## Usage

 * -
 * [adductor magnus](../../UBERON/70/UBERON_0000370.md) SubClassOf [adductor muscle of hip](../../UBERON/44/UBERON_0011144.md)
 * [adductor magnus](../../UBERON/70/UBERON_0000370.md) SubClassOf [has muscle origin](../../RO/72/RO_0002372.md) some [pubis](../../UBERON/75/UBERON_0001275.md)
 * [adductor magnus](../../UBERON/70/UBERON_0000370.md) SubClassOf [has_muscle_insertion](../../RO/73/RO_0002373.md) some [femur](../../UBERON/81/UBERON_0000981.md)
 * [adductor magnus](../../UBERON/70/UBERON_0000370.md) SubClassOf [innervated_by](../../RO/05/RO_0002005.md) some [obturator nerve](../../UBERON/65/UBERON_0005465.md)
 * [adductor magnus](../../UBERON/70/UBERON_0000370.md) SubClassOf [innervated_by](../../RO/05/RO_0002005.md) some [sciatic nerve](../../UBERON/22/UBERON_0001322.md)
 * [adductor magnus](../../UBERON/70/UBERON_0000370.md) SubClassOf [part_of](../../BFO/50/BFO_0000050.md) some [hindlimb stylopod](../../UBERON/76/UBERON_0000376.md)

## External Comments

