
## Class : optic pit

 * *IRI* = http://purl.obolibrary.org/obo/UBERON_0006270
 * *Label* = optic pit
 * *Definition* = A small indentation in the central part of the optic placode. [ [database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md) = VHOG:0001162 ]
 * *Comment* = the pit deepens to form the optic vesicle.

## Synonyms

 * optic sulcus [ [database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md) = EHDAA2:0004433 ]
 * optic evagination [ [database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md) = EMAPA:16199 ]

## Cross-references

 * EHDAA2:0004433
 * EHDAA:944
 * EMAPA:16199
 * EMAPA:16325
 * RETIRED_EHDAA2:0001316
 * VHOG:0001162

## Subsets


## Superclasses

 * [embryonic structure](../../UBERON/50/UBERON_0002050.md)
 * [ectoderm-derived structure](../../UBERON/21/UBERON_0004121.md)
 * [surface groove](../../UBERON/46/UBERON_0006846.md)
 * [part_of](../../BFO/50/BFO_0000050.md) some [eye primordium](../../UBERON/71/UBERON_0003071.md)

## Equivalencies


## Other Logical Axioms


## Other Annotations

 * *[definition](../../IAO/15/IAO_0000115.md)* = A small indentation in the central part of the optic placode.
 * *[external_definition](../../UBPROP/01/UBPROP_0000001.md)* = A small indentation in the central part of the optic placode. [157-169, Mueller_F_and_ObRahilly_R, The_first_appearance_of_the_neural_tube_and_optic_primordium_in_the_human_embryo_at_stage_10._Anatomy_and_Embryology_(1985)_172][VHOG]
 * *[homology_notes](../../UBPROP/03/UBPROP_0000003.md)* = (...) an essentially similar sequence of events occurs during the embryonic development of the vertebrate eye. The eye initially develops as a single median evagination of the diencephalon that soon bifurcates to form the paired optic vesicles (reference 1); The first morphological sign of eye development in vertebrates is the bilateral evagination of diencephalon in the early neurula. In mammals, this is marked by the appearance of the optic pit, whereas in fish and amphibians a bulging of the optic primordia is observed. Continued evagination of the optic primordia leads to the formation of the optic vesicles (reference 2).[well established][VHOG]
 * *[database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md)* = EHDAA2:0004433
 * *[database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md)* = EHDAA:944
 * *[database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md)* = EMAPA:16199
 * *[database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md)* = EMAPA:16325
 * *[database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md)* = RETIRED_EHDAA2:0001316
 * *[database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md)* = VHOG:0001162
 * *[has_exact_synonym](../../ym/oboInOwl#hasExactSynonym.md)* = optic sulcus
 * *[has_related_synonym](../../ym/oboInOwl#hasRelatedSynonym.md)* = optic evagination
 * *[rdf-schema#comment](../../nt/rdf-schema#comment.md)* = the pit deepens to form the optic vesicle.
 * *[rdf-schema#label](../../el/rdf-schema#label.md)* = optic pit

## Usage

 * -
 * [optic pit](../../UBERON/70/UBERON_0006270.md) SubClassOf [ectoderm-derived structure](../../UBERON/21/UBERON_0004121.md)
 * [optic pit](../../UBERON/70/UBERON_0006270.md) SubClassOf [embryonic structure](../../UBERON/50/UBERON_0002050.md)
 * [optic pit](../../UBERON/70/UBERON_0006270.md) SubClassOf [part_of](../../BFO/50/BFO_0000050.md) some [eye primordium](../../UBERON/71/UBERON_0003071.md)
 * [optic pit](../../UBERON/70/UBERON_0006270.md) SubClassOf [surface groove](../../UBERON/46/UBERON_0006846.md)

## External Comments

