
## Class : endostyle

 * *IRI* = http://purl.obolibrary.org/obo/UBERON_0006870
 * *Label* = endostyle
 * *Definition* = An endostyle is a longitudinal ciliated groove on the ventral wall of the pharynx which produces mucus to gather food particles. It is found in urochordates and cephalochordates, and in the larvae of lampreys. It aids in transporting food to the esophagus. It is also called the hypopharyngeal groove. The endostyle in larval lampreys (ammocetes) metamorphoses into the thyroid gland in adults, and is regarded as being homologous to the thyroid gland in vertebrates. However, Dumont, et al. question whether the endostyle in ammocetes is homologous with that of the urochordates and cephalochordates. Since the endostyle is found in the three branches of chordates, it is presumed to have arisen in the common ancestor of these taxa, along with a shift to internal feeding for extracting suspended food from the water. [ [database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md) = http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Endostyle ]
 * *Comment* = Dumont, et al. question whether the endostyle in ammocetes is homologous with that of the urochordates and cephalochordates[WP].

## Synonyms

 * hypopharyngeal groove [ [database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md) = BTO:0003173 ]

## Cross-references

 * ANISEED:1235299
 * BSA:0000064
 * BTO:0003173
 * http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Endostyle

## Subsets


## Superclasses

 * [surface groove](../../UBERON/46/UBERON_0006846.md)
 * [part_of](../../BFO/50/BFO_0000050.md) some [endocrine system](../../UBERON/49/UBERON_0000949.md)
 * [part_of](../../BFO/50/BFO_0000050.md) some [pharynx](../../UBERON/62/UBERON_0006562.md)
 * [only in taxon](../../RO/60/RO_0002160.md) some [Chordata](../../NCBITaxon/11/NCBITaxon_7711.md)
 * [capable_of](../../RO/15/RO_0002215.md) some [thyroid hormone generation](../../GO/90/GO_0006590.md)

## Equivalencies


## Other Logical Axioms


## Other Annotations

 * *[definition](../../IAO/15/IAO_0000115.md)* = An endostyle is a longitudinal ciliated groove on the ventral wall of the pharynx which produces mucus to gather food particles. It is found in urochordates and cephalochordates, and in the larvae of lampreys. It aids in transporting food to the esophagus. It is also called the hypopharyngeal groove. The endostyle in larval lampreys (ammocetes) metamorphoses into the thyroid gland in adults, and is regarded as being homologous to the thyroid gland in vertebrates. However, Dumont, et al. question whether the endostyle in ammocetes is homologous with that of the urochordates and cephalochordates. Since the endostyle is found in the three branches of chordates, it is presumed to have arisen in the common ancestor of these taxa, along with a shift to internal feeding for extracting suspended food from the water.
 * *[present_in_taxon](../../RO/75/RO_0002175.md)* = http://purl.obolibrary.org/obo/NCBITaxon_7712
 * *[present_in_taxon](../../RO/75/RO_0002175.md)* = http://purl.obolibrary.org/obo/NCBITaxon_7735
 * *[present_in_taxon](../../RO/75/RO_0002175.md)* = http://purl.obolibrary.org/obo/NCBITaxon_7745
 * *[has_relational_adjective](../../UBPROP/07/UBPROP_0000007.md)* = endostylar
 * *[database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md)* = ANISEED:1235299
 * *[database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md)* = BSA:0000064
 * *[database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md)* = BTO:0003173
 * *[database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md)* = http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Endostyle
 * *[has_related_synonym](../../ym/oboInOwl#hasRelatedSynonym.md)* = hypopharyngeal groove
 * *[rdf-schema#comment](../../nt/rdf-schema#comment.md)* = Dumont, et al. question whether the endostyle in ammocetes is homologous with that of the urochordates and cephalochordates[WP].
 * *[rdf-schema#label](../../el/rdf-schema#label.md)* = endostyle

## Usage

 * -
 * [endostylar duct](../../UBERON/75/UBERON_0014475.md) == [part_of](../../BFO/50/BFO_0000050.md) some [endostyle](../../UBERON/70/UBERON_0006870.md) and [tube](../../UBERON/25/UBERON_0000025.md)
 * [endostylar duct](../../UBERON/75/UBERON_0014475.md) SubClassOf [part_of](../../BFO/50/BFO_0000050.md) some [endostyle](../../UBERON/70/UBERON_0006870.md)
 * [endostyle](../../UBERON/70/UBERON_0006870.md) SubClassOf [capable_of](../../RO/15/RO_0002215.md) some [thyroid hormone generation](../../GO/90/GO_0006590.md)
 * [endostyle](../../UBERON/70/UBERON_0006870.md) SubClassOf [only in taxon](../../RO/60/RO_0002160.md) some [Chordata](../../NCBITaxon/11/NCBITaxon_7711.md)
 * [endostyle](../../UBERON/70/UBERON_0006870.md) SubClassOf [part_of](../../BFO/50/BFO_0000050.md) some [endocrine system](../../UBERON/49/UBERON_0000949.md)
 * [endostyle](../../UBERON/70/UBERON_0006870.md) SubClassOf [part_of](../../BFO/50/BFO_0000050.md) some [pharynx](../../UBERON/62/UBERON_0006562.md)
 * [endostyle](../../UBERON/70/UBERON_0006870.md) SubClassOf [surface groove](../../UBERON/46/UBERON_0006846.md)
 * [endostyle](../../UBERON/70/UBERON_0006870.md) and [part_of](../../BFO/50/BFO_0000050.md) some [Hyperoartia](../../NCBITaxon/69/NCBITaxon_117569.md) SubClassOf [has potential to develop into](../../RO/87/RO_0002387.md) some [thyroid gland](../../UBERON/46/UBERON_0002046.md)
 * [owl#Nothing](../../ng/owl#Nothing.md) == [endostyle](../../UBERON/70/UBERON_0006870.md) and [in taxon](../../RO/62/RO_0002162.md) some [Gnathostomata <vertebrate>](../../NCBITaxon/76/NCBITaxon_7776.md)

## External Comments

