
## Class : quadrate bone

 * *IRI* = http://purl.obolibrary.org/obo/UBERON_0006597
 * *Label* = quadrate bone
 * *Definition* = Ossified pars articularis of the palatoquadrate cartilage. [[database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md) =  + AAO:0000525[database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md) =  + Wikipedia:Quadrate_bone]
 * *Comment* = Taxon notes: In snakes, the quadrate bone has become elongated and very mobile, and contributes greatly to their ability to swallow very large prey items. In mammals the articular and quadrate bones have migrated to the middle ear and are known as the malleus and incus. AO notes: Endochondral bone that commonly articulates with the ectopterygoid anteriorly, the metapterygoid dorsally, and the symplectic postero-medially. The quadrate is formed from the posterior part of the palatoquadrate cartilage, or pars quadrata. The quadrate is a paired bone.[TAO:0000621]

## Synonyms

 * quadrate [[database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md) =  + TAO:0000621]
 * quadrate bone [[database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md) =  + AAO:0000525]
 * quadrate - incus [[database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md) =  + VHOG:0000689]

## Cross-references

 * AAO:0000525
 * EFO:0003547
 * TAO:0000621
 * VHOG:0000689
 * Wikipedia:Quadrate_bone
 * ZFA:0000621

## Subsets

 * http://purl.obolibrary.org/obo/uberon/core#efo_slim

## Superclasses

 * [endochondral bone](../../UBERON/13/UBERON_0002513.md)
 * [bone of upper jaw](../../UBERON/97/UBERON_0011597.md)
 * [part_of](../../BFO/50/BFO_0000050.md) some [suspensorium](../../UBERON/08/UBERON_0003108.md)
 * [part_of](../../BFO/50/BFO_0000050.md) some [skeleton of upper jaw](../../UBERON/77/UBERON_0003277.md)
 * [in_lateral_side_of](../../BSPO/26/BSPO_0000126.md) some [skeleton of upper jaw](../../UBERON/77/UBERON_0003277.md)
 * [develops from](../../RO/02/RO_0002202.md) some [palatoquadrate cartilage](../../UBERON/52/UBERON_0004752.md)

## Equivalencies


## Other Logical Axioms


## Other Annotations

 * *[external_definition](../../UBPROP/01/UBPROP_0000001.md)* = Endochondral bone that commonly articulates with the ectopterygoid anteriorly, the metapterygoid dorsally, and the symplectic postero-medially. The quadrate is formed from the posterior part of the palatoquadrate cartilage, or pars quadrata. The quadrate is a paired bone.[TAO]
 * *[axiom_lost_from_external_ontology](../../UBPROP/02/UBPROP_0000002.md)* = relationship loss: overlaps quadrate-hyomandibula joint (TAO:0001801)[TAO]
 * *[axiom_lost_from_external_ontology](../../UBPROP/02/UBPROP_0000002.md)* = relationship loss: overlaps quadrate-metapterygoid joint (TAO:0001803)[TAO]
 * *[homology_notes](../../UBPROP/03/UBPROP_0000003.md)* = According to this theory (Reichert-Gaupp theory), the mammalian stapes is derived from the reptilian columella, the incus from the quadrate and the malleus from the articular (...).[well established][VHOG]
 * *[external_comment](../../UBPROP/05/UBPROP_0000005.md)* = The quadrate commonly has a triangular shape, with its lower vertex, or condyle, for articulation with the lower jaw, and an elongate postero-ventral or postero-dorsal elongate process. The presence of an elongate postero-ventral or postero-dorsal process is a synapomorphy of teleosts (Arratia and Schultze, 1990; Arratia, 1999).[TAO]
 * *[homologous_in](../../core#homologous/in/core#homologous_in.md)* = http://purl.obolibrary.org/obo/NCBITaxon_7742
 * *[has_obo_namespace](../../ce/oboInOwl#hasOBONamespace.md)* = uberon
 * *[oboInOwl#id](../../id/oboInOwl#id.md)* = UBERON:0006597

## External Comments

