
## Class : puboischiadic bar

 * *IRI* = http://purl.obolibrary.org/obo/UBERON_4200135
 * *Label* = puboischiadic bar
 * *Definition* = A transverse flattened or cylindrical plate in the posterior body wall opposite the anterior ends of the pelvic fins, in front of the vent and at the posterior end of the body cavity, that supports a few anterior pelvic radials and a basal cartilage, the basipterygium.  from  Leonard J. V. Compagno. 2001. Sharks of the World: An Annotated and Illustrated Catalogue of Shark Species Known to Date. Volume 2.
 * *Comment* = Potentially homologous to the pelvic girdle.

## Synonyms


## Cross-references


## Subsets


## Superclasses

 * [mesoderm-derived structure](../../UBERON/20/UBERON_0004120.md)
 * [cartilage element](../../UBERON/44/UBERON_0007844.md)
 * [part_of](../../BFO/50/BFO_0000050.md) some [pelvic girdle skeleton](../../UBERON/32/UBERON_0007832.md)

## Equivalencies


## Other Logical Axioms


## Other Annotations

 * *[definition](../../IAO/15/IAO_0000115.md)* = A transverse flattened or cylindrical plate in the posterior body wall opposite the anterior ends of the pelvic fins, in front of the vent and at the posterior end of the body cavity, that supports a few anterior pelvic radials and a basal cartilage, the basipterygium.  from  Leonard J. V. Compagno. 2001. Sharks of the World: An Annotated and Illustrated Catalogue of Shark Species Known to Date. Volume 2.
 * *[oboInOwl#created_by](../../oboInOwl#created/by/oboInOwl#created_by.md)* = AD
 * *[rdf-schema#comment](../../nt/rdf-schema#comment.md)* = Potentially homologous to the pelvic girdle.
 * *[rdf-schema#label](../../el/rdf-schema#label.md)* = puboischiadic bar

## Usage

 * -
 * [puboischiadic bar](../../UBERON/35/UBERON_4200135.md) SubClassOf [cartilage element](../../UBERON/44/UBERON_0007844.md)
 * [puboischiadic bar](../../UBERON/35/UBERON_4200135.md) SubClassOf [mesoderm-derived structure](../../UBERON/20/UBERON_0004120.md)
 * [puboischiadic bar](../../UBERON/35/UBERON_4200135.md) SubClassOf [part_of](../../BFO/50/BFO_0000050.md) some [pelvic girdle skeleton](../../UBERON/32/UBERON_0007832.md)

## External Comments

