
## Class : cervical loop

 * *IRI* = http://purl.obolibrary.org/obo/UBERON_0006949
 * *Label* = cervical loop
 * *Definition* = The cervical loop is the location on an enamel organ in a developing tooth where the outer enamel epithelium and the inner enamel epithelium join. The cervical loop is a histologic term indicating a specific epithelial structure at the apical side of the tooth germ, consisting of loosely aggregated stellate reticulum in the center surrounded by stratum intermedium. These tissues are enveloped by a basal layer of epithelium known on the outside of the tooth as outer enamel epithelium and on the inside as inner enamel epithelium. During root formation the inner layers of epithelium disappear and only the basal layers are left creating Hertwig's Epithelial Root Sheath (HERS). At this point it is usually referred to as HERS instead of the cervical loop to indicate the structural difference[WP]. [ [database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md) = http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cervical_loop ]

## Synonyms


## Cross-references

 * http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cervical_loop

## Subsets


## Superclasses

 * [dental epithelium](../../UBERON/43/UBERON_0003843.md)
 * [part_of](../../BFO/50/BFO_0000050.md) some [tooth enamel organ](../../UBERON/76/UBERON_0005176.md)
 * [continuous with](../../RO/50/RO_0002150.md) some [inner dental epithelium](../../UBERON/51/UBERON_0006951.md)
 * [continuous with](../../RO/50/RO_0002150.md) some [outer dental epithelium](../../UBERON/52/UBERON_0006952.md)

## Equivalencies


## Other Logical Axioms


## Other Annotations

 * *[definition](../../IAO/15/IAO_0000115.md)* = The cervical loop is the location on an enamel organ in a developing tooth where the outer enamel epithelium and the inner enamel epithelium join. The cervical loop is a histologic term indicating a specific epithelial structure at the apical side of the tooth germ, consisting of loosely aggregated stellate reticulum in the center surrounded by stratum intermedium. These tissues are enveloped by a basal layer of epithelium known on the outside of the tooth as outer enamel epithelium and on the inside as inner enamel epithelium. During root formation the inner layers of epithelium disappear and only the basal layers are left creating Hertwig's Epithelial Root Sheath (HERS). At this point it is usually referred to as HERS instead of the cervical loop to indicate the structural difference[WP].
 * *[database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md)* = http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cervical_loop
 * *[rdf-schema#label](../../el/rdf-schema#label.md)* = cervical loop

## Usage

 * -
 * [cervical loop](../../UBERON/49/UBERON_0006949.md) SubClassOf [continuous with](../../RO/50/RO_0002150.md) some [inner dental epithelium](../../UBERON/51/UBERON_0006951.md)
 * [cervical loop](../../UBERON/49/UBERON_0006949.md) SubClassOf [continuous with](../../RO/50/RO_0002150.md) some [outer dental epithelium](../../UBERON/52/UBERON_0006952.md)
 * [cervical loop](../../UBERON/49/UBERON_0006949.md) SubClassOf [dental epithelium](../../UBERON/43/UBERON_0003843.md)
 * [cervical loop](../../UBERON/49/UBERON_0006949.md) SubClassOf [part_of](../../BFO/50/BFO_0000050.md) some [tooth enamel organ](../../UBERON/76/UBERON_0005176.md)
 * [stellate reticulum](../../UBERON/50/UBERON_0006950.md) SubClassOf [part_of](../../BFO/50/BFO_0000050.md) some [cervical loop](../../UBERON/49/UBERON_0006949.md)

## External Comments

