
## Class : brush cell of trachebronchial tree

 * *IRI* = http://purl.obolibrary.org/obo/CL_0002075
 * *Label* = brush cell of trachebronchial tree
 * *Definition* = Infrequent type of columnar epithelial cell. This cell is characterized by the presence of a tuft of blunt, squat microvilli (approximately 120-140/cell) on the cell surface. The microvilli contain filaments that stretch into the underlying cytoplasm. They have a distinctive pear shape with a wide base and a narrow microvillous apex. Function not known. [ [database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md) = GOC:tfm, [database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md) = ISBN:0517223651, [database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md) = PMID:15817800 ]

## Synonyms

 * pulmonary brush cell

## Cross-references


## Subsets


## Superclasses

 * [epithelial cell of tracheobronchial tree](../../CL/02/CL_0002202.md)
 * [brush cell](../../CL/04/CL_0002204.md)
 * [part_of](../../BFO/50/BFO_0000050.md) some [tracheobronchial tree](../../UBERON/96/UBERON_0007196.md)

## Equivalencies


## Other Logical Axioms


## Other Annotations

 * *[definition](../../IAO/15/IAO_0000115.md)* = Infrequent type of columnar epithelial cell. This cell is characterized by the presence of a tuft of blunt, squat microvilli (approximately 120-140/cell) on the cell surface. The microvilli contain filaments that stretch into the underlying cytoplasm. They have a distinctive pear shape with a wide base and a narrow microvillous apex. Function not known.
 * *[oboInOwl#created_by](../../oboInOwl#created/by/oboInOwl#created_by.md)* = tmeehan
 * *[oboInOwl#creation_date](../../oboInOwl#creation/te/oboInOwl#creation_date.md)* = 2010-06-29T03:22:46Z
 * *[has_related_synonym](../../ym/oboInOwl#hasRelatedSynonym.md)* = pulmonary brush cell
 * *[rdf-schema#label](../../el/rdf-schema#label.md)* = brush cell of trachebronchial tree

## Usage

 * -
 * [brush cell of bronchus](../../CL/08/CL_0002208.md) SubClassOf [brush cell of trachebronchial tree](../../CL/75/CL_0002075.md)
 * [brush cell of trachea](../../CL/07/CL_0002207.md) SubClassOf [brush cell of trachebronchial tree](../../CL/75/CL_0002075.md)
 * [brush cell of trachebronchial tree](../../CL/75/CL_0002075.md) SubClassOf [brush cell](../../CL/04/CL_0002204.md)
 * [brush cell of trachebronchial tree](../../CL/75/CL_0002075.md) SubClassOf [epithelial cell of tracheobronchial tree](../../CL/02/CL_0002202.md)
 * [brush cell of trachebronchial tree](../../CL/75/CL_0002075.md) SubClassOf [part_of](../../BFO/50/BFO_0000050.md) some [tracheobronchial tree](../../UBERON/96/UBERON_0007196.md)

## External Comments

