
## Class : Boettcher cell

 * *IRI* = http://purl.obolibrary.org/obo/CL_0002084
 * *Label* = Boettcher cell
 * *Definition* = A Boettcher cell is a polyhedral cells on the basilar membrane of the cochlea, and is located beneath Claudius cells. A Boettcher cell is considered a supporting cell for the organ of Corti, and is present only in the lower turn of the cochlea. These cells interweave with each other, and project microvilli into the intercellular space. Because of their structural specialization, a Boettcher cell is believed to play a significant role in the function of the cochlea. They demonstrate high levels of calmodulin, and may be involved in mediating Ca(2+) regulation and ion transport. [ [database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md) = GOC:tfm, [database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md) = http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Boettcher_cell ]

## Synonyms

 * Boettcher's cell
 * Bottcher cell
 * Bottcher's cell

## Cross-references


## Subsets


## Superclasses

 * [supporting cell of cochlea](../../CL/15/CL_0002315.md)

## Equivalencies


## Other Logical Axioms


## Other Annotations

 * *[definition](../../IAO/15/IAO_0000115.md)* = A Boettcher cell is a polyhedral cells on the basilar membrane of the cochlea, and is located beneath Claudius cells. A Boettcher cell is considered a supporting cell for the organ of Corti, and is present only in the lower turn of the cochlea. These cells interweave with each other, and project microvilli into the intercellular space. Because of their structural specialization, a Boettcher cell is believed to play a significant role in the function of the cochlea. They demonstrate high levels of calmodulin, and may be involved in mediating Ca(2+) regulation and ion transport.
 * *[oboInOwl#created_by](../../oboInOwl#created/by/oboInOwl#created_by.md)* = tmeehan
 * *[oboInOwl#creation_date](../../oboInOwl#creation/te/oboInOwl#creation_date.md)* = 2010-07-14T03:22:02Z
 * *[has_exact_synonym](../../ym/oboInOwl#hasExactSynonym.md)* = Boettcher's cell
 * *[has_exact_synonym](../../ym/oboInOwl#hasExactSynonym.md)* = Bottcher cell
 * *[has_exact_synonym](../../ym/oboInOwl#hasExactSynonym.md)* = Bottcher's cell
 * *[rdf-schema#label](../../el/rdf-schema#label.md)* = Boettcher cell

## Usage

 * -
 * [Boettcher cell](../../CL/84/CL_0002084.md) SubClassOf [supporting cell of cochlea](../../CL/15/CL_0002315.md)

## External Comments

