
## Class : jugal bone

 * *IRI* = http://purl.obolibrary.org/obo/UBERON_0001683
 * *Label* = jugal bone
 * *Definition* = The zygomatic bone is a paired dermal bone which articulates with the maxilla. In humans it also articulates with the temporal bone, the sphenoid bone and the frontal bone. The zygomatic is homologous to the jugal bone of other tetrapods. It is situated at the upper and lateral part of the face and forms the prominence of the cheek, part of the lateral wall and floor of the orbit, and parts of the temporal and infratemporal fossae. It presents a malar and a temporal surface; four processes, the frontosphenoidal, orbital, maxillary, and temporal; and four borders[WP,modified]. [ [database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md) = Wikipedia:Jugal_bone, [database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md) = Wikipedia:Zygomatic_bone ]
 * *Comment* = Taxon notes: vHOG says is homologous to infraorbital 3.

## Synonyms

 * cheek bone
 * malar bone [ [database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md) = FMA:52747 ]
 * orbital bone
 * os zygomaticum [ [database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md) = FMA:52747, [database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md) = FMA:TA ]
 * zygomatic bone [ [database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md) = MA:0001497 ]
 * jugal [ [database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md) = Wikipedia:Zygomatic_bone ]
 * jugal bone [ [database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md) = GAID:225, [database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md) = Wikipedia:Zygomatic_bone ]
 * jugale [ [has_synonym_type](../../pe/oboInOwl#hasSynonymType.md) = http://purl.obolibrary.org/obo/uberon/core#SENSU ]
 * os zygomaticum [ [database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md) = Wikipedia:Zygomatic_bone, [has_synonym_type](../../pe/oboInOwl#hasSynonymType.md) = http://purl.obolibrary.org/obo/uberon/core#LATIN ]
 * os zygomaticus [ [database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md) = Wikipedia:Zygomatic_bone ]
 * zygoma [ [database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md) = GAID:225 ]
 * zygoma [ [database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md) = Wikipedia:Zygomatic_bone ]
 * zygomatic

## Cross-references

 * EMAPA:25111
 * FMA:52747
 * GAID:225
 * MA:0001497
 * SCTID:272683001
 * VHOG:0001638
 * Wikipedia:Jugal_bone
 * http://upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/2/2d/Gray164.png
 * http://upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/2/2d/Gray164.png/200px-Gray164.png

## Subsets

 * http://purl.obolibrary.org/obo/uberon/core#uberon_slim

## Superclasses

 * [facial bone](../../UBERON/62/UBERON_0003462.md)
 * [irregular bone](../../UBERON/01/UBERON_0008001.md)
 * [dermal bone](../../UBERON/07/UBERON_0008907.md)
 * [part_of](../../BFO/50/BFO_0000050.md) some [cheek](../../UBERON/67/UBERON_0001567.md)
 * [part_of](../../BFO/50/BFO_0000050.md) some [dermatocranium](../../UBERON/13/UBERON_0003113.md)
 * [part_of](../../BFO/50/BFO_0000050.md) some [facial skeleton](../../UBERON/56/UBERON_0011156.md)
 * [has_part](../../BFO/51/BFO_0000051.md) some [part_of](../../BFO/50/BFO_0000050.md) some [orbital region](../../UBERON/97/UBERON_0001697.md)
 * [in_lateral_side_of](../../BSPO/26/BSPO_0000126.md) some [facial skeleton](../../UBERON/56/UBERON_0011156.md)

## Equivalencies


## Other Logical Axioms


## Other Annotations

 * *[external_definition](../../UBPROP/01/UBPROP_0000001.md)* = The jugal is a skull bone found in most reptiles, amphibians, and birds. In mammals, the jugal is often called the malar or Zygomatic. It is connected to the quadratojugal and maxilla, as well as other bones, which may vary by species. This bone is considered key in the determination of general traits of the skull, in the case of creatures, as with dinosaurs in paleontology, whose entire skull has not been found[Wikipedia:Jugal_bone].
 * *[external_definition](../../UBPROP/01/UBPROP_0000001.md)* = The zygomatic bone is a paired dermal bone which articulates with the maxilla. In humans it also articulates with the temporal bone, the sphenoid bone and the frontal bone. The zygomatic is homologous to the jugal bone of other tetrapods. It is situated at the upper and lateral part of the face and forms the prominence of the cheek, part of the lateral wall and floor of the orbit, and parts of the temporal and infratemporal fossae. It presents a malar and a temporal surface; four processes, the frontosphenoidal, orbital, maxillary, and temporal; and four borders[WP,modified][Wikipedia:Zygomatic_bone].
 * *[homology_notes](../../UBPROP/03/UBPROP_0000003.md)* =  (...) and the infraorbital bone 3 of advanced actinopterygians (is homologous) with the jugal bone of sarcopterygians.[well established][VHOG]
 * *[homologous_in](../../core#homologous/in/core#homologous_in.md)* = http://purl.obolibrary.org/obo/NCBITaxon_7742

## Usage


## External Comments

