
## Class : crypt of Lieberkuhn

 * *IRI* = http://purl.obolibrary.org/obo/UBERON_0001983
 * *Label* = crypt of Lieberkuhn
 * *Definition* = A tubular gland found in the epithelial lining of the intestine and colon. [[database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md) =  + Wikipedia:Intestinal_crypt]
 * *Comment* = Taxon notes: Most fish lack intestinal glands that extend into the mucosa, Gadidae (Jacobshagen 1937) and Macrouridae (Geisterdoerfer 1973( have glands at the base of surface folds throughout intestine - these have been called crypts, but cell types are the same as for surface epithelium. Crypts have been described in salamander midguts (Reeder 1964) some reptiles (Luppa 1977) and some birds (Ziswiler and Farner 1972). Reptile crypts are less developed than birds and mammals, with epithelium similar to the surface. Avian crypts vary from those with absorprive and goblet cells to those that have cells with basophilic granules[ISBN:9780521617147]

## Synonyms

 * Lieberkuhn crypt
 * Lieberkuhn gland
 * Lieberkuhn's gland
 * Lieberkuhn's glands [[has_synonym_type](../../pe/oboInOwl#hasSynonymType.md) =  + http://purl.obolibrary.org/obo/uberon/core#PLURAL]
 * crypt of Lieberkühn
 * crypt of lieberkuhn
 * crypts of Lieberkühn [[has_synonym_type](../../pe/oboInOwl#hasSynonymType.md) =  + http://purl.obolibrary.org/obo/uberon/core#PLURAL]
 * follicles of lieberkuhn
 * intestinal crypt
 * intestinal crypts [[has_synonym_type](../../pe/oboInOwl#hasSynonymType.md) =  + http://purl.obolibrary.org/obo/uberon/core#PLURAL]
 * lieberkuhn crypt
 * intestinal gland [[database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md) =  + Wikipedia:Crypts_of_Lieberkuhn]

## Cross-references

 * FMA:63621
 * MA:0001535
 * SCTID:118652008
 * UMLS:C1621887 [[oboInOwl#source](../../ce/oboInOwl#source.md) =  + ncithesaurus:Crypts_of_the_Lieberkuhn]
 * Wikipedia:Intestinal_crypt
 * http://upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/3/38/Small_intestine_low_mag.jpg
 * http://upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/3/38/Small_intestine_low_mag.jpg/200px-Small_intestine_low_mag.jpg
 * ncithesaurus:Crypts_of_the_Lieberkuhn

## Subsets

 * http://purl.obolibrary.org/obo/uberon/core#organ_slim

## Superclasses

 * [intestinal gland](../../UBERON/33/UBERON_0000333.md)
 * [part_of](../../BFO/50/BFO_0000050.md) some [intestinal mucosa](../../UBERON/42/UBERON_0001242.md)
 * [only_in_taxon](../../RO/60/RO_0002160.md) some [Tetrapoda](../../NCBITaxon/23/NCBITaxon_32523.md)
 * [has_quality](../../SIO/08/SIO_000008.md) some [cylindrical](../../PATO/73/PATO_0001873.md)

## Equivalencies


## Other Logical Axioms


## Other Annotations

 * *[external_definition](../../UBPROP/01/UBPROP_0000001.md)* = In histology, an intestinal crypt, also crypt of LieberkC<hn and intestinal gland, is a gland found in the epithelial lining of the small intestine and colon. The crypts secrete various enzymes, including sucrase and maltase, along with endopeptidases and exopeptidases. Also new epithelium is formed here, keeping in mind that the epithelium at this site is frequently worn away by the passing food. Loss of proliferation control in the crypts is thought to lead to colorectal cancer. The basal portion of the Crypt contains multipotent stem cells. At each mitosis one daughter remains a stem cell while the other differentiates and migrates up the side of the crypt and eventually the villus. Goblet cells are among the cells produced in this fashion[Wikipedia:Intestinal_crypt].
 * *[has_obo_namespace](../../ce/oboInOwl#hasOBONamespace.md)* = uberon
 * *[oboInOwl#id](../../id/oboInOwl#id.md)* = UBERON:0001983

## External Comments

