
## Class : supraoccipital crest

 * *IRI* = http://purl.obolibrary.org/obo/UBERON_2001783
 * *Label* = supraoccipital crest
 * *Definition* = Process that is part of the supraoccipital. It is a posteriorly directed and unpaired median projection off the posterior margin of the supraoccipital bone. [ [database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md) = TAO:GA_TG ]
 * *Comment* = The supraoccipital crest may be small and restricted to the dorsal part of the supraoccipital, or may be large and long and extending ventrally to the dorsal margin of the foramen magnum. The supraoccipital crest may be a large process extending above the skull roof in some teleostean subgroups.

## Synonyms

 * supraoccipital process [ [database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md) = TAO:0001783 ]
 * supraoccipital spine [ [database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md) = TAO:0001783 ]

## Cross-references


## Subsets


## Superclasses

 * [mesoderm-derived structure](../../UBERON/20/UBERON_0004120.md)
 * [structure with developmental contribution from neural crest](../../UBERON/14/UBERON_0010314.md)
 * [skeletal element projection](../../UBERON/00/UBERON_4100000.md)
 * [part_of](../../BFO/50/BFO_0000050.md) some [supraoccipital bone](../../UBERON/47/UBERON_0004747.md)

## Equivalencies


## Other Logical Axioms


## Other Annotations

 * *[definition](../../IAO/15/IAO_0000115.md)* = Process that is part of the supraoccipital. It is a posteriorly directed and unpaired median projection off the posterior margin of the supraoccipital bone.
 * *[core#provenance_notes](../../core#provenance/es/core#provenance_notes.md)* = This class was sourced from an external ontology (teleost_anatomy). Its definitions, naming conventions and relationships may need to be checked for compatibility with uberon
 * *[oboInOwl#created_by](../../oboInOwl#created/by/oboInOwl#created_by.md)* = teleost_anatomy_curators
 * *[has_exact_synonym](../../ym/oboInOwl#hasExactSynonym.md)* = supraoccipital process
 * *[has_exact_synonym](../../ym/oboInOwl#hasExactSynonym.md)* = supraoccipital spine
 * *[rdf-schema#comment](../../nt/rdf-schema#comment.md)* = The supraoccipital crest may be small and restricted to the dorsal part of the supraoccipital, or may be large and long and extending ventrally to the dorsal margin of the foramen magnum. The supraoccipital crest may be a large process extending above the skull roof in some teleostean subgroups.
 * *[rdf-schema#label](../../el/rdf-schema#label.md)* = supraoccipital crest

## Usage

 * -
 * [supraoccipital crest](../../UBERON/83/UBERON_2001783.md) SubClassOf [mesoderm-derived structure](../../UBERON/20/UBERON_0004120.md)
 * [supraoccipital crest](../../UBERON/83/UBERON_2001783.md) SubClassOf [part_of](../../BFO/50/BFO_0000050.md) some [supraoccipital bone](../../UBERON/47/UBERON_0004747.md)
 * [supraoccipital crest](../../UBERON/83/UBERON_2001783.md) SubClassOf [skeletal element projection](../../UBERON/00/UBERON_4100000.md)
 * [supraoccipital crest](../../UBERON/83/UBERON_2001783.md) SubClassOf [structure with developmental contribution from neural crest](../../UBERON/14/UBERON_0010314.md)

## External Comments

