
## Class : gongyloid cartilage

 * *IRI* = http://purl.obolibrary.org/obo/UBERON_2001696
 * *Label* = gongyloid cartilage
 * *Definition* = Pharyngeal arch cartilage present on the dorsal surface of the middle portion of the upper branchial arches, dorsal to the point of contact between the second and third infrapharyngobranchials. It is round or cylyndrical in shape. Not homologous to the mediopharyngobranchial. [ [database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md) = TAO:wd ]
 * *Comment* = Recorded in Pristigasteridae and Engraulidae, of Clupeiformes, apparently also present in Chanos, of Gonorynchiformes (Di Dario, 2002).

## Synonyms


## Cross-references


## Subsets


## Superclasses

 * [pharyngeal arch cartilage](../../UBERON/04/UBERON_0011004.md)

## Equivalencies


## Other Logical Axioms


## Other Annotations

 * *[definition](../../IAO/15/IAO_0000115.md)* = Pharyngeal arch cartilage present on the dorsal surface of the middle portion of the upper branchial arches, dorsal to the point of contact between the second and third infrapharyngobranchials. It is round or cylyndrical in shape. Not homologous to the mediopharyngobranchial.
 * *[core#provenance_notes](../../core#provenance/es/core#provenance_notes.md)* = This class was sourced from an external ontology (teleost_anatomy). Its definitions, naming conventions and relationships may need to be checked for compatibility with uberon
 * *[oboInOwl#created_by](../../oboInOwl#created/by/oboInOwl#created_by.md)* = teleost_anatomy_curators
 * *[rdf-schema#comment](../../nt/rdf-schema#comment.md)* = Recorded in Pristigasteridae and Engraulidae, of Clupeiformes, apparently also present in Chanos, of Gonorynchiformes (Di Dario, 2002).
 * *[rdf-schema#label](../../el/rdf-schema#label.md)* = gongyloid cartilage

## Usage

 * -
 * [gongyloid cartilage](../../UBERON/96/UBERON_2001696.md) SubClassOf [pharyngeal arch cartilage](../../UBERON/04/UBERON_0011004.md)

## External Comments

