
## Class : intestine

 * *IRI* = http://purl.obolibrary.org/obo/UBERON_0000160
 * *Label* = intestine
 * *Definition* = Segment of the alimentary canal extending from the stomach to the anus and, in humans and other mammals, consists of two segments, the small intestine and the large intestine. [[database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md) =  + GOC:GO[database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md) =  + Wikipedia:Intestine]
 * *Comment* = MA also has a class MA:0001524 bowel, not clear how this is different. Usage notes: this class is currently very general, encompassing the C elegans 'intestine', which is a tube of epithelial cells extending from the 'pharynx' to 'rectum'. Taxon notes: [in zebrafish] No stomach, small intestine, or large intestine can be distinguished. However, differences can be found in the morphology of the mucosa columnar epithelial cells and the number of goblet cells, suggesting functional differentiation. The intestine has numerous folds that become progressively shorter in a rostral-to-caudal direction. Proportionally, these folds are significantly larger than the finger-like intestinal villi of mammals and other amniotes (Wallace et al. 2005). Columnar-shaped absorptive enterocytes are the most numerous in the zebrafish intestinal epithelium. Goblet cells are the second most populous epithelial cell type.

## Synonyms

 * bowel

## Cross-references

 * AAO:0000246
 * ANISEED:1235303
 * BSA:0000093
 * BTO:0000648
 * CALOHA:TS-0490
 * EFO:0000834
 * EMAPA:32874
 * EV:0100071
 * FMA:7199
 * GAID:295
 * MA:0000328
 * MA:0001524
 * MESH:A03.492.411
 * MIAA:0000043
 * SCTID:256876008
 * TAO:0001338
 * UMLS:C0021853 [[oboInOwl#source](../../ce/oboInOwl#source.md) =  + ncithesaurus:Intestine]
 * VHOG:0000056
 * WBbt:0005772
 * Wikipedia:Intestine
 * XAO:0000129
 * ZFA:0001338
 * galen:Intestine
 * ncithesaurus:Intestine

## Subsets

 * http://purl.obolibrary.org/obo/uberon/core#efo_slim
 * http://purl.obolibrary.org/obo/uberon/core#uberon_slim
 * http://purl.obolibrary.org/obo/uberon/core#vertebrate_core

## Superclasses

 * [subdivision of digestive tract](../../UBERON/21/UBERON_0004921.md)
 * [part_of](../../BFO/50/BFO_0000050.md) some [gastrointestinal system](../../UBERON/09/UBERON_0005409.md)

## Equivalencies


## Other Logical Axioms


## Other Annotations

 * *[external_definition](../../UBPROP/01/UBPROP_0000001.md)* = Portion of the alimentary canal bounded anteriorly by the pyloric sphincter and posteriorly by the cloacal sphincter.[AAO]
 * *[external_definition](../../UBPROP/01/UBPROP_0000001.md)* = The tract of the alimentary canal. [Dorian_AF, Elsevier's_encyclopaedic_dictionary_of_medicine, Part_B:_Anatomy_(1988)_Amsterdam_etc.:_Elsevier][VHOG]
 * *[has_relational_adjective](../../UBPROP/07/UBPROP_0000007.md)* = intestinal
 * *[homologous_in](../../core#homologous/in/core#homologous_in.md)* = http://purl.obolibrary.org/obo/NCBITaxon_7742
 * *[has_obo_namespace](../../ce/oboInOwl#hasOBONamespace.md)* = uberon
 * *[oboInOwl#id](../../id/oboInOwl#id.md)* = UBERON:0000160

## External Comments

