
## Class : supraorbital bone

 * *IRI* = http://purl.obolibrary.org/obo/UBERON_2000691
 * *Label* = supraorbital bone
 * *Definition* = Dermal bone that is part of the dorsal or upper border or antero-dorsal border of the orbit. The supraorbital bone may contact the orbital margin of the frontal bone medially, the antorbital antero-ventrally and the dermosphenotic posteriorly. The supraorbital bone does not carry sensory canals. The supraorbital bone is paired. [ [database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md) = TAO:GA_TG ]
 * *Comment* = The supraorbital bone may be present as two or one bone in extant teleosts, although many of the advanced forms lack the bone.

## Synonyms


## Cross-references

 * ZFA:0000691

## Subsets


## Superclasses

 * [facial bone](../../UBERON/62/UBERON_0003462.md)
 * [dermal bone](../../UBERON/07/UBERON_0008907.md)
 * [skeletal element of eye region](../../UBERON/21/UBERON_0010321.md)
 * [part_of](../../BFO/50/BFO_0000050.md) some [orbit of skull](../../UBERON/97/UBERON_0001697.md)
 * [part_of](../../BFO/50/BFO_0000050.md) some [dermatocranium](../../UBERON/13/UBERON_0003113.md)
 * [part_of](../../BFO/50/BFO_0000050.md) some [infraorbital series](../../UBERON/09/UBERON_2001709.md)

## Equivalencies


## Other Logical Axioms


## Other Annotations

 * *[definition](../../IAO/15/IAO_0000115.md)* = Dermal bone that is part of the dorsal or upper border or antero-dorsal border of the orbit. The supraorbital bone may contact the orbital margin of the frontal bone medially, the antorbital antero-ventrally and the dermosphenotic posteriorly. The supraorbital bone does not carry sensory canals. The supraorbital bone is paired.
 * *[core#provenance_notes](../../core#provenance/es/core#provenance_notes.md)* = This class was sourced from an external ontology (teleost_anatomy). Its definitions, naming conventions and relationships may need to be checked for compatibility with uberon
 * *[oboInOwl#created_by](../../oboInOwl#created/by/oboInOwl#created_by.md)* = teleost_anatomy_curators
 * *[database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md)* = ZFA:0000691
 * *[rdf-schema#comment](../../nt/rdf-schema#comment.md)* = The supraorbital bone may be present as two or one bone in extant teleosts, although many of the advanced forms lack the bone.
 * *[rdf-schema#label](../../el/rdf-schema#label.md)* = supraorbital bone

## Usage

 * -
 * [anterior supraorbital bone](../../UBERON/44/UBERON_4200244.md) SubClassOf [supraorbital bone](../../UBERON/91/UBERON_2000691.md)
 * [supraorbital bone](../../UBERON/91/UBERON_2000691.md) SubClassOf [dermal bone](../../UBERON/07/UBERON_0008907.md)
 * [supraorbital bone](../../UBERON/91/UBERON_2000691.md) SubClassOf [facial bone](../../UBERON/62/UBERON_0003462.md)
 * [supraorbital bone](../../UBERON/91/UBERON_2000691.md) SubClassOf [part_of](../../BFO/50/BFO_0000050.md) some [dermatocranium](../../UBERON/13/UBERON_0003113.md)
 * [supraorbital bone](../../UBERON/91/UBERON_2000691.md) SubClassOf [part_of](../../BFO/50/BFO_0000050.md) some [infraorbital series](../../UBERON/09/UBERON_2001709.md)
 * [supraorbital bone](../../UBERON/91/UBERON_2000691.md) SubClassOf [part_of](../../BFO/50/BFO_0000050.md) some [orbit of skull](../../UBERON/97/UBERON_0001697.md)
 * [supraorbital bone](../../UBERON/91/UBERON_2000691.md) SubClassOf [skeletal element of eye region](../../UBERON/21/UBERON_0010321.md)

## External Comments

