
## Class : subiculum

 * *IRI* = http://purl.obolibrary.org/obo/UBERON_0002191
 * *Label* = subiculum
 * *Definition* = The subiculum is the most inferior component of the hippocampal formation. It lies between the entorhinal cortex and the CA1 subfield of the hippocampus proper. It receives input from CA1 and entorhinal cortical layer III pyramidal neurons and is the main output of the hippocampus. The pyramidal neurons send projections to the nucleus accumbens, septal nuclei, prefrontal cortex, lateral hypothalamus, nucleus reuniens, mammillary nuclei, entorhinal cortex and amygdala. The pyramidal neurons in the subiculum exhibit transitions between two modes of action potential output: bursting and single spiking. The transitions between these two modes is thought to be important for routing information out of the hippocampus. It is the site responsible for ictal activity in some cases of human epilepsy. It has also been implicated in working memory and drug addiction. [WP,unvetted]. [ [database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md) = Wikipedia:Subiculum ]
 * *Comment* = ABA:SUB is part of the retrohippocampal region, along with the entorhinal area. this is in the hippocampal formation but not the hippocampal region

## Synonyms

 * subicular cortex [ [database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md) = NIF_GrossAnatomy:birnlex_1305 ]
 * subiculum hippocampi [ [database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md) = FMA:74414 ]
 * gyrus parahippocampalis [ [database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md) = BTO:0003087 ]
 * striatal cell bridges [ [database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md) = BAMS:SB ]
 * subiculum cornu ammonis [ [database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md) = BTO:0003087 ]

## Cross-references

 * ABA:SUB
 * BAMS:S
 * BAMS:SB
 * BAMS:SUB
 * BM:Tel-Cx-SB
 * BTO:0003087
 * FMA:74414
 * MA:0000960
 * NIF_GrossAnatomy:birnlex_1305
 * NeuroNames:188
 * SCTID:369097009
 * UMLS:C0152316 [ [oboInOwl#source](../../ce/oboInOwl#source.md) = ncithesaurus:Subiculum ]
 * Wikipedia:Subiculum
 * http://upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/3/31/Hippocampus_%28brain%29.jpg
 * http://upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/3/31/Hippocampus_%28brain%29.jpg/200px-Hippocampus_%28brain%29.jpg
 * ncithesaurus:Subiculum

## Subsets

 * http://purl.obolibrary.org/obo/uberon/core#uberon_slim

## Superclasses

 * [regional part of telencephalon](../../UBERON/91/UBERON_0002791.md)
 * [part_of](../../BFO/50/BFO_0000050.md) some [hippocampal formation](../../UBERON/21/UBERON_0002421.md)

## Equivalencies


## Other Logical Axioms


## Other Annotations

 * *[has_relational_adjective](../../UBPROP/07/UBPROP_0000007.md)* = subicular

## Usage


## External Comments

