
## Class : pectoral muscle

 * *IRI* = http://purl.obolibrary.org/obo/UBERON_0001495
 * *Label* = pectoral muscle
 * *Definition* = Muscles of the upper chest. The term may refer to one of two muscles, the pectoralis major and pectoralis minor. The former is a thick muscle in the anterior portion of the chest. Its action involves flexion, medial rotation, and adduction of the humerus. The latter is a thin muscle located beneath the pectoralis major. Its action involves lowering the scapula and raising the ribs. [ [database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md) = ncithesaurus:Pectoralis_Muscle ]
 * *Comment* = This currently groups the major and minor muscles (which have different attachment sites) as well as the AAO structure: Muscle which is comprised of three heads. The anterior head is the portio epicoracoidea that originates on the epicoracoid cartilage and inserts on the deltoid crest of the humerus. The next more posterior head, portio sternalis, originates on the sternum and inserts in the groove next to the deltoid crest of the humerus. The most posterior head, portio abdominalis, arises from the M. rectus abdominis and inserts on the deltoid crest of the humerus

## Synonyms

 * M. pectoralis [ [database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md) = AAO:0010727 ]
 * muscle of pectoral part of chest [ [database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md) = FMA:37349 ]
 * muscle of pectoral region [ [database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md) = FMA:37349 ]
 * breast muscle [ [database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md) = BTO:0000023 ]
 * pectoralis
 * pectoralis group muscle
 * pectoralis muscle [ [database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md) = BTO:0000023 ]

## Cross-references

 * AAO:0010727
 * BTO:0000023
 * CALOHA:TS-0751
 * EMAPA:35670
 * FMA:37349
 * GAID:153
 * MA:0002423
 * MESH:A02.633.567.775
 * UMLS:C0030747 [ [oboInOwl#source](../../ce/oboInOwl#source.md) = ncithesaurus:Pectoralis_Muscle ]
 * http://linkedlifedata.com/resource/umls/id/C0030747
 * http://ncicb.nci.nih.gov/xml/owl/EVS/Pectoralis_Muscle
 * http://www.snomedbrowser.com/Codes/Details/181621006

## Subsets

 * http://purl.obolibrary.org/obo/uberon/core#grouping_class
 * http://purl.obolibrary.org/obo/uberon/core#pheno_slim
 * http://purl.obolibrary.org/obo/uberon/core#uberon_slim

## Superclasses

 * [thoracic segment muscle](../../UBERON/30/UBERON_0003830.md)
 * [muscle of pectoral girdle](../../UBERON/96/UBERON_0008196.md)
 * [part_of](../../BFO/50/BFO_0000050.md) some [musculature of thorax](../../UBERON/64/UBERON_0004464.md)
 * [develops_from](../../RO/02/RO_0002202.md) some [pectoral pre-muscle mass](../../UBERON/84/UBERON_0010984.md)

## Equivalencies


## Other Logical Axioms


## Other Annotations

 * *[definition](../../IAO/15/IAO_0000115.md)* = Muscles of the upper chest. The term may refer to one of two muscles, the pectoralis major and pectoralis minor. The former is a thick muscle in the anterior portion of the chest. Its action involves flexion, medial rotation, and adduction of the humerus. The latter is a thin muscle located beneath the pectoralis major. Its action involves lowering the scapula and raising the ribs.
 * *[external_definition](../../UBPROP/01/UBPROP_0000001.md)* = Muscle which is comprised of three heads. The anterior head is the portio epicoracoidea that originates on the epicoracoid cartilage and inserts on the deltoid crest of the humerus. The next more posterior head, portio sternalis, originates on the sternum and inserts in the groove next to the deltoid crest of the humerus. The most posterior head, portio abdominalis, arises from the M. rectus abdominis and inserts on the deltoid crest of the humerus.[AAO]
 * *[database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md)* = AAO:0010727
 * *[database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md)* = BTO:0000023
 * *[database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md)* = CALOHA:TS-0751
 * *[database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md)* = EMAPA:35670
 * *[database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md)* = FMA:37349
 * *[database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md)* = GAID:153
 * *[database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md)* = MA:0002423
 * *[database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md)* = MESH:A02.633.567.775
 * *[database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md)* = UMLS:C0030747
 * *[database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md)* = http://linkedlifedata.com/resource/umls/id/C0030747
 * *[database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md)* = http://ncicb.nci.nih.gov/xml/owl/EVS/Pectoralis_Muscle
 * *[database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md)* = http://www.snomedbrowser.com/Codes/Details/181621006
 * *[has_exact_synonym](../../ym/oboInOwl#hasExactSynonym.md)* = M. pectoralis
 * *[has_exact_synonym](../../ym/oboInOwl#hasExactSynonym.md)* = muscle of pectoral part of chest
 * *[has_exact_synonym](../../ym/oboInOwl#hasExactSynonym.md)* = muscle of pectoral region
 * *[has_related_synonym](../../ym/oboInOwl#hasRelatedSynonym.md)* = breast muscle
 * *[has_related_synonym](../../ym/oboInOwl#hasRelatedSynonym.md)* = pectoralis
 * *[has_related_synonym](../../ym/oboInOwl#hasRelatedSynonym.md)* = pectoralis group muscle
 * *[has_related_synonym](../../ym/oboInOwl#hasRelatedSynonym.md)* = pectoralis muscle
 * *[in_subset](../../et/oboInOwl#inSubset.md)* = http://purl.obolibrary.org/obo/uberon/core#grouping_class
 * *[in_subset](../../et/oboInOwl#inSubset.md)* = http://purl.obolibrary.org/obo/uberon/core#pheno_slim
 * *[in_subset](../../et/oboInOwl#inSubset.md)* = http://purl.obolibrary.org/obo/uberon/core#uberon_slim
 * *[rdf-schema#comment](../../nt/rdf-schema#comment.md)* = This currently groups the major and minor muscles (which have different attachment sites) as well as the AAO structure: Muscle which is comprised of three heads. The anterior head is the portio epicoracoidea that originates on the epicoracoid cartilage and inserts on the deltoid crest of the humerus. The next more posterior head, portio sternalis, originates on the sternum and inserts in the groove next to the deltoid crest of the humerus. The most posterior head, portio abdominalis, arises from the M. rectus abdominis and inserts on the deltoid crest of the humerus
 * *[rdf-schema#label](../../el/rdf-schema#label.md)* = pectoral muscle
 * *[depicted_by](../../depicted/by/depicted_by.md)* = http://upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/6/6c/Pectoralis_major.png

## Usage

 * -
 * [pectoantebrachialis](../../UBERON/37/UBERON_0014837.md) SubClassOf [pectoral muscle](../../UBERON/95/UBERON_0001495.md)
 * [pectoral muscle](../../UBERON/95/UBERON_0001495.md) SubClassOf [develops_from](../../RO/02/RO_0002202.md) some [pectoral pre-muscle mass](../../UBERON/84/UBERON_0010984.md)
 * [pectoral muscle](../../UBERON/95/UBERON_0001495.md) SubClassOf [muscle of pectoral girdle](../../UBERON/96/UBERON_0008196.md)
 * [pectoral muscle](../../UBERON/95/UBERON_0001495.md) SubClassOf [part_of](../../BFO/50/BFO_0000050.md) some [musculature of thorax](../../UBERON/64/UBERON_0004464.md)
 * [pectoral muscle](../../UBERON/95/UBERON_0001495.md) SubClassOf [thoracic segment muscle](../../UBERON/30/UBERON_0003830.md)
 * [pectoralis major](../../UBERON/81/UBERON_0002381.md) SubClassOf [pectoral muscle](../../UBERON/95/UBERON_0001495.md)
 * [pectoralis minor](../../UBERON/00/UBERON_0001100.md) SubClassOf [pectoral muscle](../../UBERON/95/UBERON_0001495.md)
 * [subclavius](../../UBERON/79/UBERON_0008779.md) SubClassOf [pectoral muscle](../../UBERON/95/UBERON_0001495.md)
 * [xiphihumeralis](../../UBERON/38/UBERON_0014838.md) SubClassOf [pectoral muscle](../../UBERON/95/UBERON_0001495.md)

## External Comments

