
## Class : mediopharyngobranchial

 * *IRI* = http://purl.obolibrary.org/obo/UBERON_2001695
 * *Label* = mediopharyngobranchial
 * *Definition* = Pharyngeal arch cartilage, elongate and usually bifurcated posteriorly, located anteriorly on the upper branchial arches, attached to the anterior tips of the first infrapharyngobranchials. It supports rows of gill rakers on each side and is not homologous to other structures in the teleost gill-arch skeleton. One or two mediopharyngobranchials may be present. [ [database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md) = TAO:wd ]
 * *Comment* = Recorded in several Clupeoidei (Nelson, 1967). Submitted by Mario de Pinna.

## Synonyms


## Cross-references


## Subsets


## Superclasses

 * [pharyngeal arch cartilage](../../UBERON/04/UBERON_0011004.md)

## Equivalencies


## Other Logical Axioms


## Other Annotations

 * *[definition](../../IAO/15/IAO_0000115.md)* = Pharyngeal arch cartilage, elongate and usually bifurcated posteriorly, located anteriorly on the upper branchial arches, attached to the anterior tips of the first infrapharyngobranchials. It supports rows of gill rakers on each side and is not homologous to other structures in the teleost gill-arch skeleton. One or two mediopharyngobranchials may be present.
 * *[core#provenance_notes](../../core#provenance/es/core#provenance_notes.md)* = This class was sourced from an external ontology (teleost_anatomy). Its definitions, naming conventions and relationships may need to be checked for compatibility with uberon
 * *[oboInOwl#created_by](../../oboInOwl#created/by/oboInOwl#created_by.md)* = teleost_anatomy_curators
 * *[rdf-schema#comment](../../nt/rdf-schema#comment.md)* = Recorded in several Clupeoidei (Nelson, 1967). Submitted by Mario de Pinna.
 * *[rdf-schema#label](../../el/rdf-schema#label.md)* = mediopharyngobranchial

## Usage

 * -
 * [mediopharyngobranchial](../../UBERON/95/UBERON_2001695.md) SubClassOf [pharyngeal arch cartilage](../../UBERON/04/UBERON_0011004.md)

## External Comments

