
## Class : garland cell

 * *IRI* = http://purl.obolibrary.org/obo/CL_0000486
 * *Label* = garland cell
 * *Definition* = A large binucleate cell that forms a 'garland' around the anterior end of the proventriculus (cardia) at its junction with the esophagus in both adults and larvae flies. Each cell is surrounded by a basement membrane and there are numerous micro-invaginations (lacunae) extending from the surface into the cytoplasm. At the mouth of each lacuna is a doubled filament forming a specialised filtration system (diaphragm). The filtrate is endocytosed from the lacunae. [ [database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md) = GOC:tfm, [database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md) = PMID:19783135, [database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md) = fbbt:00005059 ]

## Synonyms

 * garland nephrocyte [ [database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md) = GO:0061321 ]

## Cross-references

 * BTO:0004596
 * FBbt:00005059

## Subsets


## Superclasses

 * [binucleate cell](../../CL/27/CL_0000227.md)
 * [phagocyte (sensu Nematoda and Protostomia)](../../CL/19/CL_0000519.md)
 * [nephrocyte](../../CL/20/CL_0002520.md)

## Equivalencies


## Other Logical Axioms


## Other Annotations

 * *[definition](../../IAO/15/IAO_0000115.md)* = A large binucleate cell that forms a 'garland' around the anterior end of the proventriculus (cardia) at its junction with the esophagus in both adults and larvae flies. Each cell is surrounded by a basement membrane and there are numerous micro-invaginations (lacunae) extending from the surface into the cytoplasm. At the mouth of each lacuna is a doubled filament forming a specialised filtration system (diaphragm). The filtrate is endocytosed from the lacunae.
 * *[has_broad_synonym](../../ym/oboInOwl#hasBroadSynonym.md)* = garland nephrocyte
 * *[database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md)* = BTO:0004596
 * *[database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md)* = FBbt:00005059
 * *[rdf-schema#label](../../el/rdf-schema#label.md)* = garland cell

## Usage

 * -
 * [garland cell](../../CL/86/CL_0000486.md) SubClassOf [binucleate cell](../../CL/27/CL_0000227.md)
 * [garland cell](../../CL/86/CL_0000486.md) SubClassOf [nephrocyte](../../CL/20/CL_0002520.md)
 * [garland cell](../../CL/86/CL_0000486.md) SubClassOf [phagocyte (sensu Nematoda and Protostomia)](../../CL/19/CL_0000519.md)

## External Comments

