
## Class : posterior lateral line

 * *IRI* = http://purl.obolibrary.org/obo/UBERON_0006334
 * *Label* = posterior lateral line
 * *Definition* = One of eight distinct lateral lines in the 4-day larva. A sensory system on the surface of the fish, consisting of small sensory patches (neuromasts) distributed in discrete lines over the body surface. The lateral line system is stimulated by local water displacements and vibrations, and detects propulsion of the fish through the water, as well as facilitating shoaling, prey capture, and predator and obstacle avoidance. [ [database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md) = ZFA:0000944 ]

## Synonyms

 * pll [ [database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md) = ZFA:0000944 ]

## Cross-references

 * AAO:0011024
 * EFO:0003595
 * HBA:4413
 * TAO:0000944
 * XAO:0000465
 * ZFA:0000944

## Subsets

 * http://purl.obolibrary.org/obo/uberon/core#dubious_grouping
 * http://purl.obolibrary.org/obo/uberon/core#efo_slim

## Superclasses

 * [lateral line](../../UBERON/02/UBERON_0010202.md)

## Equivalencies


## Other Logical Axioms


## Other Annotations

 * *[definition](../../IAO/15/IAO_0000115.md)* = One of eight distinct lateral lines in the 4-day larva. A sensory system on the surface of the fish, consisting of small sensory patches (neuromasts) distributed in discrete lines over the body surface. The lateral line system is stimulated by local water displacements and vibrations, and detects propulsion of the fish through the water, as well as facilitating shoaling, prey capture, and predator and obstacle avoidance.
 * *[editor note](../../IAO/16/IAO_0000116.md)* = check XAO/AAO
 * *[external_definition](../../UBPROP/01/UBPROP_0000001.md)* = One of eight distinct lateral lines in the 4-day larva. A sensory system on the surface of the fish, consisting of small sensory patches (neuromasts) distributed in discrete lines over the body surface. The lateral line system is stimulated by local water displacements and vibrations, and detects propulsion of the fish through the water, as well as facilitating shoaling, prey capture, and predator and obstacle avoidance. (See Anatomical Atlas entry for lateral line by T. Whitfield.)[TAO]
 * *[axiom_lost_from_external_ontology](../../UBPROP/02/UBPROP_0000002.md)* = relationship loss: develops_from posterior lateral line primordium (TAO:0001157)[TAO]
 * *[axiom_lost_from_external_ontology](../../UBPROP/02/UBPROP_0000002.md)* = relationship loss: part_of posterior lateral line system (TAO:0001471)[TAO]
 * *[database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md)* = AAO:0011024
 * *[database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md)* = EFO:0003595
 * *[database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md)* = HBA:4413
 * *[database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md)* = TAO:0000944
 * *[database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md)* = XAO:0000465
 * *[database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md)* = ZFA:0000944
 * *[has_exact_synonym](../../ym/oboInOwl#hasExactSynonym.md)* = pll
 * *[in_subset](../../et/oboInOwl#inSubset.md)* = http://purl.obolibrary.org/obo/uberon/core#dubious_grouping
 * *[in_subset](../../et/oboInOwl#inSubset.md)* = http://purl.obolibrary.org/obo/uberon/core#efo_slim
 * *[rdf-schema#label](../../el/rdf-schema#label.md)* = posterior lateral line

## Usage

 * -
 * [posterior lateral line neuromast hair cell](../../CL/37/CL_2000037.md) SubClassOf [part_of](../../BFO/50/BFO_0000050.md) some [posterior lateral line](../../UBERON/34/UBERON_0006334.md)
 * [posterior lateral line neuromast mantle cell](../../CL/38/CL_2000038.md) SubClassOf [part_of](../../BFO/50/BFO_0000050.md) some [posterior lateral line](../../UBERON/34/UBERON_0006334.md)
 * [posterior lateral line neuromast support cell](../../CL/39/CL_2000039.md) SubClassOf [part_of](../../BFO/50/BFO_0000050.md) some [posterior lateral line](../../UBERON/34/UBERON_0006334.md)
 * [posterior lateral line neuromast](../../UBERON/40/UBERON_2000940.md) SubClassOf [part_of](../../BFO/50/BFO_0000050.md) some [posterior lateral line](../../UBERON/34/UBERON_0006334.md)
 * [posterior lateral line](../../UBERON/34/UBERON_0006334.md) SubClassOf [lateral line](../../UBERON/02/UBERON_0010202.md)

## External Comments

