
## Class : intertrochanteric line

 * *IRI* = http://purl.obolibrary.org/obo/UBERON_0013634
 * *Label* = intertrochanteric line
 * *Definition* = The intertrochanteric line (or spiral line of the femur) is a line located on the anterior side of the proximal end of the femur. The rough, variable ridge stretches between the lesser trochanter and the greater trochanter forming the base of the neck of the femur, roughly following the direction of the shaft of the femur. The iliofemoral ligament &mdash; the largest ligament of the human body &mdash; attaches above the line which also strengthen the capsule of the hip joint. The lower half, less prominent than the upper half, gives origin to the upper part of the Vastus medialis. Just like the intertrochanteric crest on the posterior side of the femural head, the intertrochanteric line mark the transition between the femural neck and shaft. The distal capsular attachment on the femur follows the shape of the irregular rim between the head and the neck. As a consequence, the capsule of the hip joint attaches in the region of the intertrochanteric line on the anterior side, but a finger away from the intertrochanteric crest on the posterior side of the head. The fibers of the ischiocapsular ligament attaches both on the joint capsule and to the intertrochanteric line. [ [database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md) = http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Intertrochanteric_line ]

## Synonyms


## Cross-references

 * FMA:74587
 * http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Intertrochanteric_line

## Subsets


## Superclasses

 * [anatomical line](../../UBERON/00/UBERON_0006800.md)
 * [part_of](../../BFO/50/BFO_0000050.md) some [proximal epiphysis of femur](../../UBERON/12/UBERON_0004412.md)

## Equivalencies


## Other Logical Axioms


## Other Annotations

 * *[definition](../../IAO/15/IAO_0000115.md)* = The intertrochanteric line (or spiral line of the femur) is a line located on the anterior side of the proximal end of the femur. The rough, variable ridge stretches between the lesser trochanter and the greater trochanter forming the base of the neck of the femur, roughly following the direction of the shaft of the femur. The iliofemoral ligament &mdash; the largest ligament of the human body &mdash; attaches above the line which also strengthen the capsule of the hip joint. The lower half, less prominent than the upper half, gives origin to the upper part of the Vastus medialis. Just like the intertrochanteric crest on the posterior side of the femural head, the intertrochanteric line mark the transition between the femural neck and shaft. The distal capsular attachment on the femur follows the shape of the irregular rim between the head and the neck. As a consequence, the capsule of the hip joint attaches in the region of the intertrochanteric line on the anterior side, but a finger away from the intertrochanteric crest on the posterior side of the head. The fibers of the ischiocapsular ligament attaches both on the joint capsule and to the intertrochanteric line.
 * *[database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md)* = FMA:74587
 * *[database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md)* = http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Intertrochanteric_line
 * *[rdf-schema#label](../../el/rdf-schema#label.md)* = intertrochanteric line

## Usage

 * -
 * [intertrochanteric line](../../UBERON/34/UBERON_0013634.md) SubClassOf [anatomical line](../../UBERON/00/UBERON_0006800.md)
 * [intertrochanteric line](../../UBERON/34/UBERON_0013634.md) SubClassOf [part_of](../../BFO/50/BFO_0000050.md) some [proximal epiphysis of femur](../../UBERON/12/UBERON_0004412.md)

## External Comments

