
## Class : prostomium

 * *IRI* = http://purl.obolibrary.org/obo/UBERON_0008834
 * *Label* = prostomium
 * *Definition* = The first body segment in annelids worms. It is in front of (but does not include) the mouth, being usually a small shelf- or lip-like extension over the dorsal side of the mouth. It sometimes bears antennae and eyes. By feeding, it often functions like a kind of overlip. The shape and composition of prostomium are important for annelid systematics. [ [database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md) = http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Prostomium ]

## Synonyms

 * acron [ [database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md) = BTO:0004198, [database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md) = http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Prostomium ]

## Cross-references

 * BTO:0004198
 * http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Prostomium

## Subsets


## Superclasses

 * [organismal segment](../../UBERON/14/UBERON_0000914.md)
 * [only in taxon](../../RO/60/RO_0002160.md) some [Annelida](../../NCBITaxon/40/NCBITaxon_6340.md)

## Equivalencies


## Other Logical Axioms


## Other Annotations

 * *[definition](../../IAO/15/IAO_0000115.md)* = The first body segment in annelids worms. It is in front of (but does not include) the mouth, being usually a small shelf- or lip-like extension over the dorsal side of the mouth. It sometimes bears antennae and eyes. By feeding, it often functions like a kind of overlip. The shape and composition of prostomium are important for annelid systematics.
 * *[function_notes](../../UBPROP/09/UBPROP_0000009.md)* = It sometimes bears antennae and eyes. It often functions like a kind of overlip when the animal is feeding. The shape and composition of prostomium are important for annelid systematics.
 * *[database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md)* = BTO:0004198
 * *[database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md)* = http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Prostomium
 * *[has_related_synonym](../../ym/oboInOwl#hasRelatedSynonym.md)* = acron
 * *[rdf-schema#label](../../el/rdf-schema#label.md)* = prostomium

## Usage

 * -
 * [prostomium](../../UBERON/34/UBERON_0008834.md) SubClassOf [only in taxon](../../RO/60/RO_0002160.md) some [Annelida](../../NCBITaxon/40/NCBITaxon_6340.md)
 * [prostomium](../../UBERON/34/UBERON_0008834.md) SubClassOf [organismal segment](../../UBERON/14/UBERON_0000914.md)

## External Comments

