
## Class : skeletal muscle tissue

 * *IRI* = http://purl.obolibrary.org/obo/UBERON_0001134
 * *Label* = skeletal muscle tissue
 * *Definition* = Muscle tissue that consists primarily of skeletal muscle fibers. [ [database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md) = https://github.com/obophenotype/uberon/issues/324 ]
 * *Comment* = TODO - add skeletal muscle organ? See GO:0060538 skeletal muscle organ development. Todo - group FBbt:00005073 - somatic muscle.

## Synonyms

 * skeletal muscle
 * skeletal muscle system [ [database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md) = BTO:0001103 ]
 * somatic muscle [ [database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md) = BTO:0001103 ]

## Cross-references

 * FMA:14069
 * SCTID:426215008
 * UMLS:C0242692 [ [oboInOwl#source](../../ce/oboInOwl#source.md) = ncithesaurus:Skeletal_Muscle_Tissue ]
 * Wikipedia:Skeletal_striated_muscle
 * http://upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/c/c0/Skeletal_muscle.jpg
 * ncithesaurus:Skeletal_Muscle_Tissue

## Subsets

 * http://purl.obolibrary.org/obo/uberon/core#uberon_slim
 * http://purl.obolibrary.org/obo/uberon/core#vertebrate_core

## Superclasses

 * [muscle tissue](../../UBERON/85/UBERON_0002385.md)
 * [part_of](../../BFO/50/BFO_0000050.md) some [skeletal muscle organ](../../UBERON/92/UBERON_0014892.md)
 * [develops from](../../RO/02/RO_0002202.md) some [myotome](../../UBERON/82/UBERON_0003082.md)
 * [composed_primarily_of](../../UBREL/02/UBREL_0000002.md) some [CL_0008002](../../CL/02/CL_0008002.md)

## Equivalencies

 * [composed_primarily_of](../../UBREL/02/UBREL_0000002.md) some [CL_0008002](../../CL/02/CL_0008002.md) and [muscle tissue](../../UBERON/85/UBERON_0002385.md)

## Other Logical Axioms


## Other Annotations

 * *[external_definition](../../UBPROP/01/UBPROP_0000001.md)* = Muscle, composed of long cylindrical, multinucleated cells that attaches to the skeleton via tendons.[TAO]
 * *[external_definition](../../UBPROP/01/UBPROP_0000001.md)* = Tissue which consists of skeletal muscle fibers surrounded by endomysium. Examples: Skeletal muscle tissue of biceps, Skeletal muscle tissue of diaphragm[FMA]
 * *[homology_notes](../../UBPROP/03/UBPROP_0000003.md)* = This result implies the following views in terms of evolutionary differentiation: (1) Arthropod striated muscle and vertebrate skeletal and cardiac muscles share a common ancestor. In other words, they did not evolve independently (...) (5) The divergence of vertebrate skeletal and cardiac muscles/vertebrate smooth muscle and nonmuscle is at least before that of vertebrates/arthropods. In other words, emergence of skeletal and cardiac musle type tissues preceded the vertebrate/arthropod divergence (ca. 700 MYA).[well established][VHOG]
 * *[homologous_in](../../core#homologous/in/core#homologous_in.md)* = http://purl.obolibrary.org/obo/NCBITaxon_7742

## Usage


## External Comments

