
## Class : scent gland

 * *IRI* = http://purl.obolibrary.org/obo/UBERON_0011252
 * *Label* = scent gland
 * *Definition* = Scent glands are exocrine glands found in most mammals. They produce semi-viscous secretions which contain pheromones and other semiochemical compounds. These odor-messengers indicate information such as status, territory marking, mood, and sexual power. The odor may be subliminal—not consciously detectable. Though it is not their primary function, the salivary glands may also function as scent glands in some animals. [ [database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md) = http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Scent_gland ]

## Synonyms


## Cross-references

 * BTO:0002068
 * MESH:A13.820
 * http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Scent_gland

## Subsets


## Superclasses

 * [exocrine gland](../../UBERON/65/UBERON_0002365.md)
 * [capable of part of](../../RO/16/RO_0002216.md) some [multi-organism signaling](../../GO/36/GO_0035636.md)

## Equivalencies

 * [capable of part of](../../RO/16/RO_0002216.md) some [multi-organism signaling](../../GO/36/GO_0035636.md) and [exocrine gland](../../UBERON/65/UBERON_0002365.md)

## Other Logical Axioms


## Other Annotations

 * *[definition](../../IAO/15/IAO_0000115.md)* = Scent glands are exocrine glands found in most mammals. They produce semi-viscous secretions which contain pheromones and other semiochemical compounds. These odor-messengers indicate information such as status, territory marking, mood, and sexual power. The odor may be subliminal—not consciously detectable. Though it is not their primary function, the salivary glands may also function as scent glands in some animals.
 * *[external_definition](../../UBPROP/01/UBPROP_0000001.md)* = Exocrine glands in animals which secrete scents which either repel or attract other animals, e.g. perianal glands of skunks, anal glands of weasels, musk glands of foxes, ventral glands of wood rats, and dorsal glands of peccaries[MESH:A13.820].
 * *[database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md)* = BTO:0002068
 * *[database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md)* = MESH:A13.820
 * *[database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md)* = http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Scent_gland
 * *[rdf-schema#label](../../el/rdf-schema#label.md)* = scent gland
 * *[depicted_by](../../depicted/by/depicted_by.md)* = http://upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/8/85/Civetglands.png

## Usage

 * -
 * [gland of anal sac](../../UBERON/53/UBERON_0011253.md) SubClassOf [scent gland](../../UBERON/52/UBERON_0011252.md)
 * [scent gland](../../UBERON/52/UBERON_0011252.md) == [capable of part of](../../RO/16/RO_0002216.md) some [multi-organism signaling](../../GO/36/GO_0035636.md) and [exocrine gland](../../UBERON/65/UBERON_0002365.md)
 * [scent gland](../../UBERON/52/UBERON_0011252.md) SubClassOf [capable of part of](../../RO/16/RO_0002216.md) some [multi-organism signaling](../../GO/36/GO_0035636.md)
 * [scent gland](../../UBERON/52/UBERON_0011252.md) SubClassOf [exocrine gland](../../UBERON/65/UBERON_0002365.md)
 * [skin scent gland](../../UBERON/52/UBERON_0016852.md) == [part_of](../../BFO/50/BFO_0000050.md) some [skin of body](../../UBERON/97/UBERON_0002097.md) and [scent gland](../../UBERON/52/UBERON_0011252.md)
 * [skin scent gland](../../UBERON/52/UBERON_0016852.md) SubClassOf [scent gland](../../UBERON/52/UBERON_0011252.md)
 * [violet gland](../../UBERON/34/UBERON_0013234.md) SubClassOf [scent gland](../../UBERON/52/UBERON_0011252.md)

## External Comments

