
## Class : fossa maxillaris

 * *IRI* = http://purl.obolibrary.org/obo/UBERON_3000652
 * *Label* = fossa maxillaris
 * *Definition* = Depression lacated on the inner surface of the maxilla between the palatine process and the pars palatina. [ [database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md) = AAO:LAP ]
 * *Comment* = Alternative more fish orientated definition.

 A fossa that is a depression in the proximal end of the maxilla involved in articulation with the palatine. [Baldwin, CC and Johnson GD. 1996. Interrelationships of Aulopiformes. Pages 355-404 in MLJ Stiassny, LR Parenti, and DG Johnson, (eds.), Interrelationships of fishes. Academic Press, San Diego, CA.]

## Synonyms

 * maxillary saddle

## Cross-references


## Subsets


## Superclasses

 * [bone fossa](../../UBERON/04/UBERON_0004704.md)
 * [part_of](../../BFO/50/BFO_0000050.md) some [maxilla](../../UBERON/97/UBERON_0002397.md)

## Equivalencies


## Other Logical Axioms


## Other Annotations

 * *[definition](../../IAO/15/IAO_0000115.md)* = Depression lacated on the inner surface of the maxilla between the palatine process and the pars palatina.
 * *[core#provenance_notes](../../core#provenance/es/core#provenance_notes.md)* = This class was sourced from an external ontology (amphibian_anatomy). Its definitions, naming conventions and relationships may need to be checked for compatibility with uberon
 * *[oboInOwl#created_by](../../oboInOwl#created/by/oboInOwl#created_by.md)* = amphibian_anatomy_curators
 * *[has_exact_synonym](../../ym/oboInOwl#hasExactSynonym.md)* = maxillary saddle
 * *[rdf-schema#comment](../../nt/rdf-schema#comment.md)* = Alternative more fish orientated definition.

 A fossa that is a depression in the proximal end of the maxilla involved in articulation with the palatine. [Baldwin, CC and Johnson GD. 1996. Interrelationships of Aulopiformes. Pages 355-404 in MLJ Stiassny, LR Parenti, and DG Johnson, (eds.), Interrelationships of fishes. Academic Press, San Diego, CA.]
 * *[rdf-schema#label](../../el/rdf-schema#label.md)* = fossa maxillaris

## Usage

 * -
 * [fossa maxillaris](../../UBERON/52/UBERON_3000652.md) SubClassOf [bone fossa](../../UBERON/04/UBERON_0004704.md)
 * [fossa maxillaris](../../UBERON/52/UBERON_3000652.md) SubClassOf [part_of](../../BFO/50/BFO_0000050.md) some [maxilla](../../UBERON/97/UBERON_0002397.md)

## External Comments

