
## Class : orbicularis oculi muscle

 * *IRI* = http://purl.obolibrary.org/obo/UBERON_0001578
 * *Label* = orbicularis oculi muscle
 * *Definition* = A circumorbital muscle in the face that closes the eyelid[HP]. [ [database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md) = http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Orbicularis_oculi_muscle ]
 * *Comment* = It arises from the nasal part of the frontal bone, from the frontal process of the maxilla in front of the lacrimal groove, and from the anterior surface and borders of a short fibrous band, the medial palpebral ligament. From this origin, the fibers are directed lateralward, forming a broad and thin layer, which occupies the eyelids or palpebræ, surrounds the circumference of the orbit, and spreads over the temple, and downward on the cheek. The palpebral portion of the muscle is thin and pale; it arises from the bifurcation of the medial palpebral ligament, forms a series of concentric curves, and is inserted into the lateral palpebral raphé. The orbital portion is thicker and of a reddish color; its fibers form a complete ellipse without interruption at the lateral palpebral commissure; the upper fibers of this portion blend with the Frontalis and Corrugator. The lacrimal part (Tensor tarsi) is a small, thin muscle, about 6 mm. in breadth and 12 mm. in length, situated behind the medial palpebral ligament and lacrimal sac. It arises from the posterior crest and adjacent part of the orbital surface of the lacrimal bone, and passing behind the lacrimal sac, divides into two slips, upper and lower, which are inserted into the superior and inferior tarsi medial to the puncta lacrimalia; occasionally it is very indistinct. [WP,unvetted]. [Wikipedia:Orbicularis_oculi_muscle]

## Synonyms

 * orbicularis oculi [ [database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md) = http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Orbicularis_oculi_muscle ]
 * musculus orbicularis oculi [ [database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md) = http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Orbicularis_oculi_muscle, [has_synonym_type](../../pe/oboInOwl#hasSynonymType.md) = http://purl.obolibrary.org/obo/uberon/core#LATIN ]
 * tensor tarsi [ [database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md) = http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Orbicularis_oculi_muscle ]

## Cross-references

 * EMAPA:35619
 * FMA:46779
 * MA:0001254
 * UMLS:C0224122 [ [oboInOwl#source](../../ce/oboInOwl#source.md) = ncithesaurus:Orbicularis_Oculi ]
 * http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Orbicularis_oculi_muscle
 * http://linkedlifedata.com/resource/umls/id/C0224122
 * http://ncicb.nci.nih.gov/xml/owl/EVS/Orbicularis_Oculi
 * http://www.snomedbrowser.com/Codes/Details/244726006

## Subsets

 * http://purl.obolibrary.org/obo/uberon/core#pheno_slim
 * http://purl.obolibrary.org/obo/uberon/core#uberon_slim

## Superclasses

 * [eyelid muscle](../../UBERON/60/UBERON_0003660.md)
 * [eye muscle](../../UBERON/77/UBERON_0004277.md)
 * [part_of](../../BFO/50/BFO_0000050.md) some [camera-type eye](../../UBERON/19/UBERON_0000019.md)
 * [innervated_by](../../RO/05/RO_0002005.md) some [facial nerve](../../UBERON/47/UBERON_0001647.md)
 * [has muscle origin](../../RO/72/RO_0002372.md) some [tetrapod frontal bone](../../UBERON/09/UBERON_0000209.md)
 * [has muscle origin](../../RO/72/RO_0002372.md) some [lacrimal bone](../../UBERON/80/UBERON_0001680.md)
 * [has muscle origin](../../RO/72/RO_0002372.md) some [medial palpebral ligament](../../UBERON/24/UBERON_0004724.md)
 * [has_muscle_insertion](../../RO/73/RO_0002373.md) some [eyelid tarsus](../../UBERON/72/UBERON_0004772.md)

## Equivalencies


## Other Logical Axioms


## Other Annotations

 * *[definition](../../IAO/15/IAO_0000115.md)* = A circumorbital muscle in the face that closes the eyelid[HP].
 * *[database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md)* = EMAPA:35619
 * *[database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md)* = FMA:46779
 * *[database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md)* = MA:0001254
 * *[database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md)* = UMLS:C0224122
 * *[database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md)* = http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Orbicularis_oculi_muscle
 * *[database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md)* = http://linkedlifedata.com/resource/umls/id/C0224122
 * *[database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md)* = http://ncicb.nci.nih.gov/xml/owl/EVS/Orbicularis_Oculi
 * *[database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md)* = http://www.snomedbrowser.com/Codes/Details/244726006
 * *[has_exact_synonym](../../ym/oboInOwl#hasExactSynonym.md)* = orbicularis oculi
 * *[has_related_synonym](../../ym/oboInOwl#hasRelatedSynonym.md)* = musculus orbicularis oculi
 * *[has_related_synonym](../../ym/oboInOwl#hasRelatedSynonym.md)* = tensor tarsi
 * *[in_subset](../../et/oboInOwl#inSubset.md)* = http://purl.obolibrary.org/obo/uberon/core#pheno_slim
 * *[in_subset](../../et/oboInOwl#inSubset.md)* = http://purl.obolibrary.org/obo/uberon/core#uberon_slim
 * *[rdf-schema#comment](../../nt/rdf-schema#comment.md)* = It arises from the nasal part of the frontal bone, from the frontal process of the maxilla in front of the lacrimal groove, and from the anterior surface and borders of a short fibrous band, the medial palpebral ligament. From this origin, the fibers are directed lateralward, forming a broad and thin layer, which occupies the eyelids or palpebræ, surrounds the circumference of the orbit, and spreads over the temple, and downward on the cheek. The palpebral portion of the muscle is thin and pale; it arises from the bifurcation of the medial palpebral ligament, forms a series of concentric curves, and is inserted into the lateral palpebral raphé. The orbital portion is thicker and of a reddish color; its fibers form a complete ellipse without interruption at the lateral palpebral commissure; the upper fibers of this portion blend with the Frontalis and Corrugator. The lacrimal part (Tensor tarsi) is a small, thin muscle, about 6 mm. in breadth and 12 mm. in length, situated behind the medial palpebral ligament and lacrimal sac. It arises from the posterior crest and adjacent part of the orbital surface of the lacrimal bone, and passing behind the lacrimal sac, divides into two slips, upper and lower, which are inserted into the superior and inferior tarsi medial to the puncta lacrimalia; occasionally it is very indistinct. [WP,unvetted]. [Wikipedia:Orbicularis_oculi_muscle]
 * *[rdf-schema#label](../../el/rdf-schema#label.md)* = orbicularis oculi muscle
 * *[depicted_by](../../depicted/by/depicted_by.md)* = http://upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/e/e2/Gray379.png

## Usage

 * -
 * [orbicularis oculi muscle](../../UBERON/78/UBERON_0001578.md) SubClassOf [eye muscle](../../UBERON/77/UBERON_0004277.md)
 * [orbicularis oculi muscle](../../UBERON/78/UBERON_0001578.md) SubClassOf [eyelid muscle](../../UBERON/60/UBERON_0003660.md)
 * [orbicularis oculi muscle](../../UBERON/78/UBERON_0001578.md) SubClassOf [has muscle origin](../../RO/72/RO_0002372.md) some [lacrimal bone](../../UBERON/80/UBERON_0001680.md)
 * [orbicularis oculi muscle](../../UBERON/78/UBERON_0001578.md) SubClassOf [has muscle origin](../../RO/72/RO_0002372.md) some [medial palpebral ligament](../../UBERON/24/UBERON_0004724.md)
 * [orbicularis oculi muscle](../../UBERON/78/UBERON_0001578.md) SubClassOf [has muscle origin](../../RO/72/RO_0002372.md) some [tetrapod frontal bone](../../UBERON/09/UBERON_0000209.md)
 * [orbicularis oculi muscle](../../UBERON/78/UBERON_0001578.md) SubClassOf [has_muscle_insertion](../../RO/73/RO_0002373.md) some [eyelid tarsus](../../UBERON/72/UBERON_0004772.md)
 * [orbicularis oculi muscle](../../UBERON/78/UBERON_0001578.md) SubClassOf [innervated_by](../../RO/05/RO_0002005.md) some [facial nerve](../../UBERON/47/UBERON_0001647.md)
 * [orbicularis oculi muscle](../../UBERON/78/UBERON_0001578.md) SubClassOf [part_of](../../BFO/50/BFO_0000050.md) some [camera-type eye](../../UBERON/19/UBERON_0000019.md)
 * [skeletal muscle tissue of orbicularis oculi](../../UBERON/05/UBERON_0004505.md) == [part_of](../../BFO/50/BFO_0000050.md) some [orbicularis oculi muscle](../../UBERON/78/UBERON_0001578.md) and [skeletal muscle tissue](../../UBERON/34/UBERON_0001134.md)
 * [skeletal muscle tissue of orbicularis oculi](../../UBERON/05/UBERON_0004505.md) SubClassOf [part_of](../../BFO/50/BFO_0000050.md) some [orbicularis oculi muscle](../../UBERON/78/UBERON_0001578.md)

## External Comments

