
## Class : optic choroid vascular plexus

 * *IRI* = http://purl.obolibrary.org/obo/UBERON_0010078
 * *Label* = optic choroid vascular plexus

## Synonyms

 * CVP [ [database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md) = ZFA:0005094, [has_synonym_type](../../pe/oboInOwl#hasSynonymType.md) = http://purl.obolibrary.org/obo/uberon/core#ABBREVIATION ]
 * capillary lamina of choroid [ [database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md) = XAO:0004176 ]
 * choriocapillaris [ [database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md) = XAO:0004176 ]
 * choroid vascular plexus
 * choroid vasculature [ [database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md) = ZFA:0005094 ]
 * choroidal vascular plexus [ [database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md) = TAO:0005094 ]
 * optic choroid vascular plexus [ [database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md) = XAO:0004176 ]

## Cross-references

 * TAO:0005094
 * XAO:0004176
 * ZFA:0005094

## Subsets


## Superclasses

 * [vasculature of eye](../../UBERON/03/UBERON_0002203.md)
 * [vascular plexus](../../UBERON/29/UBERON_0005629.md)
 * [part_of](../../BFO/50/BFO_0000050.md) some [optic choroid](../../UBERON/76/UBERON_0001776.md)
 * [part_of](../../BFO/50/BFO_0000050.md) some [vasculature of head](../../UBERON/00/UBERON_0002200.md)

## Equivalencies


## Other Logical Axioms


## Other Annotations

 * *[editor note](../../IAO/16/IAO_0000116.md)* = Consider merging with capillary layer. Consider choriocapillaris complex
 * *[external_definition](../../UBPROP/01/UBPROP_0000001.md)* = A plexus of capillaries that is located anteromedial to the eye. It is a capillary layer in the choroid. It is in contact with the basal surface of the retinal pigmented epithelium and supplies the photoreceptors with oxygen and nutrients. The fused basement membrane of this capillary layer and the pigmented epithelium is called Bruch's membrane.[XAO:0004176].
 * *[external_definition](../../UBPROP/01/UBPROP_0000001.md)* = Is an ocular vasculature that develops adjacent to the pigment epithelium of the eye. The optic choroid vascular plexus develops from the primitive mesencephalic artery. Initially blood enters from the mesencephalic central artery, and the dorsal ciliary vein. The plexus drains via the ophthalmic vein. The plexus supplies blood to the retina[ZFA:0005094].
 * *[taxon_notes](../../UBPROP/08/UBPROP_0000008.md)* = The choroid of teleosts is a connective tissue layer rich in blood vessels, and one or two choroidal glands.
 * *[has_alternative_id](../../Id/oboInOwl#hasAlternativeId.md)* = ZFA:0005228
 * *[database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md)* = TAO:0005094
 * *[database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md)* = XAO:0004176
 * *[database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md)* = ZFA:0005094
 * *[has_exact_synonym](../../ym/oboInOwl#hasExactSynonym.md)* = CVP
 * *[has_related_synonym](../../ym/oboInOwl#hasRelatedSynonym.md)* = capillary lamina of choroid
 * *[has_related_synonym](../../ym/oboInOwl#hasRelatedSynonym.md)* = choriocapillaris
 * *[has_related_synonym](../../ym/oboInOwl#hasRelatedSynonym.md)* = choroid vascular plexus
 * *[has_related_synonym](../../ym/oboInOwl#hasRelatedSynonym.md)* = choroid vasculature
 * *[has_related_synonym](../../ym/oboInOwl#hasRelatedSynonym.md)* = choroidal vascular plexus
 * *[has_related_synonym](../../ym/oboInOwl#hasRelatedSynonym.md)* = optic choroid vascular plexus
 * *[rdf-schema#label](../../el/rdf-schema#label.md)* = optic choroid vascular plexus

## Usage

 * -
 * [optic choroid vascular plexus](../../UBERON/78/UBERON_0010078.md) SubClassOf [part_of](../../BFO/50/BFO_0000050.md) some [optic choroid](../../UBERON/76/UBERON_0001776.md)
 * [optic choroid vascular plexus](../../UBERON/78/UBERON_0010078.md) SubClassOf [part_of](../../BFO/50/BFO_0000050.md) some [vasculature of head](../../UBERON/00/UBERON_0002200.md)
 * [optic choroid vascular plexus](../../UBERON/78/UBERON_0010078.md) SubClassOf [vascular plexus](../../UBERON/29/UBERON_0005629.md)
 * [optic choroid vascular plexus](../../UBERON/78/UBERON_0010078.md) SubClassOf [vasculature of eye](../../UBERON/03/UBERON_0002203.md)

## External Comments

