
## Class : fovea centralis

 * *IRI* = http://purl.obolibrary.org/obo/UBERON_0001786
 * *Label* = fovea centralis
 * *Definition* = a part of the eye, located in the center of the macula region of the retina. [1] [2] The fovea is responsible for sharp central vision (also called foveal vision). The fovea is surrounded by the parafovea belt, and the perifovea outer region:[2] the parafovea is the intermediate belt where the ganglion cell layer is composed of more than five rows of cells; as well as the highest density of cones; the perifovea is the outermost region where the ganglion cell layer contains two to four rows of cells, and is where visual acuity is below the optimum. The perifovea contains an even more diminished density of cones, having 12 per 100 micrometres versus 50 per 100 micrometres in the most central fovea. This, in turn, is surrounded by a larger peripheral area that delivers highly compressed information of low resolution. Approximately 50% of the nerve fibers in the optic nerve carry information from the fovea, while the other 50% carry information from the rest of the retina. The parafovea extends to a distance of 1? mm from the central fovea, and the perifovea is found 2? mm away from the fovea centralis[WP]. [[database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md) =  + Wikipedia:Fovea_centralis_in_macula]
 * *Comment* = As an anatomical term, there are several foveae around the body, including in the head of the femur.(WP)

## Synonyms

 * centre of macula [[database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md) =  + NIF_GrossAnatomy:birnlex_2543]
 * fovea
 * fovea centralis in macula [[database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md) =  + Wikipedia:Fovea_centralis_in_macula]
 * centre of fovea [[database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md) =  + NIF_GrossAnatomy:birnlex_2543]

## Cross-references

 * CALOHA:TS-2055
 * EV:0100350
 * FMA:58658
 * GAID:910
 * MA:0001307
 * MESH:A09.371.729.522.436
 * NIF_GrossAnatomy:birnlex_2543
 * SCTID:264479005
 * UMLS:C0016622 [[oboInOwl#source](../../ce/oboInOwl#source.md) =  + NIF_GrossAnatomy:birnlex_2543]
 * UMLS:C0016622 [[oboInOwl#source](../../ce/oboInOwl#source.md) =  + ncithesaurus:Fovea_Centralis]
 * UMLS:C0450290 [[oboInOwl#source](../../ce/oboInOwl#source.md) =  + NIF_GrossAnatomy:birnlex_2543]
 * VHOG:0001572
 * Wikipedia:Fovea_centralis_in_macula
 * http://upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/1/1e/Schematic_diagram_of_the_human_eye_en.svg/200px-Schematic_diagram_of_the_human_eye_en.svg.png
 * ncithesaurus:Fovea_Centralis

## Subsets

 * http://purl.obolibrary.org/obo/uberon/core#uberon_slim

## Superclasses

 * [organ part](../../UBERON/64/UBERON_0000064.md)
 * [ectoderm-derived structure](../../UBERON/21/UBERON_0004121.md)
 * [part_of](../../BFO/50/BFO_0000050.md) some [macula lutea](../../UBERON/53/UBERON_0000053.md)
 * [only_in_taxon](../../RO/60/RO_0002160.md) some [Vertebrata <Metazoa>](../../NCBITaxon/42/NCBITaxon_7742.md)

## Equivalencies


## Other Logical Axioms


## Other Annotations

 * *[external_definition](../../UBPROP/01/UBPROP_0000001.md)* = A small pit in the center of the macula lutea, the area of clearest vision, where the retinal layers are spread aside, and light falls directly on the cones. [TFD][VHOG]
 * *[homology_notes](../../UBPROP/03/UBPROP_0000003.md)* = Definition of fovea centralis should be considered here as 'an area centralis at the visual axis' (reference 1). There is an uncertaincy of the relation, because: 1.-The fovea first appeared in evolution in the temporal retina of fishes. Then, in birds, the nasal fovea and bifoveal system with nasal and temporal foveas developed. The fovea disappeared in primitive mammals, and reappeared in primates. A residue of the fovea is conserved in the visual streak, and the disappearance and reappearance of the fovea, in primitive mammals and primates respectively, correlates with degeneration and restoration of cone pigment genes in photoreceptors (reference 2). 2.-Many retinal features (foveas, trichromacy, midget pathways and associated cell types) appear specific to primates. This has led to investigations in parallel with other mammalian models such as cat or rabbit. Correlation of the results often proves to be difficult, since an evolutionary scenario with transitions between the mammalian models is largely lacking (reference 3).[uncertain][VHOG]
 * *[homologous_in](../../core#homologous/in/core#homologous_in.md)* = http://purl.obolibrary.org/obo/NCBITaxon_7742
 * *[has_obo_namespace](../../ce/oboInOwl#hasOBONamespace.md)* = uberon
 * *[oboInOwl#id](../../id/oboInOwl#id.md)* = UBERON:0001786

## External Comments

