
## Class : obsolete CoB

 * *IRI* = http://purl.obolibrary.org/obo/UBERON_2005186
 * *Label* = obsolete CoB
 * *Definition* = A bifurcate interneuron. It is a commissural neuron with both ascending and descending axons in the ventrolateral cord contralateral to its cell body. [ [database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md) = ZFIN:ZDB-PUB-961014-649 ]
 * *Comment* = This term entered TAO as a leaf node in the zebrafish AO and is not in the CL.

This may be the same as CoBL. incorrectly generalized to teleosts so being obsoleted.

## Synonyms

 * bifurcate commissural interneuron [ [database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md) = TAO:0005186 ]

## Cross-references

 * ZFA:0005186

## Subsets


## Superclasses


## Equivalencies


## Other Logical Axioms


## Other Annotations

 * *[definition](../../IAO/15/IAO_0000115.md)* = A bifurcate interneuron. It is a commissural neuron with both ascending and descending axons in the ventrolateral cord contralateral to its cell body.
 * *[core#provenance_notes](../../core#provenance/es/core#provenance_notes.md)* = This class was sourced from an external ontology (teleost_anatomy). Its definitions, naming conventions and relationships may need to be checked for compatibility with uberon
 * *[oboInOwl#created_by](../../oboInOwl#created/by/oboInOwl#created_by.md)* = teleost_anatomy_curators
 * *[database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md)* = ZFA:0005186
 * *[has_exact_synonym](../../ym/oboInOwl#hasExactSynonym.md)* = bifurcate commissural interneuron
 * *[rdf-schema#comment](../../nt/rdf-schema#comment.md)* = This term entered TAO as a leaf node in the zebrafish AO and is not in the CL.

This may be the same as CoBL. incorrectly generalized to teleosts so being obsoleted.
 * *[rdf-schema#label](../../el/rdf-schema#label.md)* = obsolete CoB
 * *[owl#deprecated](../../ed/owl#deprecated.md)* = true

## Usage

 * -

## External Comments

