
## Class : headfoot

 * *IRI* = http://purl.obolibrary.org/obo/UBERON_0008943
 * *Label* = headfoot
 * *Definition* = The head-foot is the part you see most easily in slugs and snails. It is mostly a muscular organ covered in cilia and rich in mucous cells, which the mollusc uses to move around, it normally tapers to a tail at one end and has a head incorporated in the front. The head includes a mouth, eyes and tentacles, the last two may be much reduced or even absent. In those species with shells the head-foot can be drawn into the shell. [ [database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md) = BTO:0003509 ]

## Synonyms


## Cross-references

 * BTO:0003509

## Subsets


## Superclasses

 * [organism subdivision](../../UBERON/75/UBERON_0000475.md)
 * [only in taxon](../../RO/60/RO_0002160.md) some [Mollusca](../../NCBITaxon/47/NCBITaxon_6447.md)

## Equivalencies


## Other Logical Axioms


## Other Annotations

 * *[definition](../../IAO/15/IAO_0000115.md)* = The head-foot is the part you see most easily in slugs and snails. It is mostly a muscular organ covered in cilia and rich in mucous cells, which the mollusc uses to move around, it normally tapers to a tail at one end and has a head incorporated in the front. The head includes a mouth, eyes and tentacles, the last two may be much reduced or even absent. In those species with shells the head-foot can be drawn into the shell.
 * *[database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md)* = BTO:0003509
 * *[rdf-schema#label](../../el/rdf-schema#label.md)* = headfoot

## Usage

 * -
 * [headfoot](../../UBERON/43/UBERON_0008943.md) SubClassOf [only in taxon](../../RO/60/RO_0002160.md) some [Mollusca](../../NCBITaxon/47/NCBITaxon_6447.md)
 * [headfoot](../../UBERON/43/UBERON_0008943.md) SubClassOf [organism subdivision](../../UBERON/75/UBERON_0000475.md)

## External Comments

