
## Class : filum terminale

 * *IRI* = http://purl.obolibrary.org/obo/UBERON_0005443
 * *Label* = filum terminale
 * *Definition* = The filum terminale ('terminal thread'), is a delicate strand of fibrous tissue, about 20 cm. in length, proceeding downward from the apex of the conus medullaris. It gives longitudinal support to the spinal cord and consists of two parts: The upper part, or filum terminale internum, is about 15 cm. long and reaches as far as the lower border of the second sacral vertebra. It is continuous above with the pia mater and contained within a tubular sheath of the dura mater. In addition, it is surrounded by the nerves forming the cauda equina, from which it can be easily recognized by its bluish-white color. The lower part, or filum terminale externum, closely adheres to the dura mater. It extends downward from the apex of the tubular sheath and is attached to the back of the first segment of the coccyx in a structure sometimes referred to as the coccygeal ligament. The most inferior of the spinal nerves, the coccygeal nerve leaves the spinal cord at the level of the conus medullaris, superior to the filum terminale. However, adhering to the outer surface of the filum terminale are a few strands of nerve fibers which probably represent rudimentary second and third coccygeal nerves. Furthermore, the central canal of the spinal cord extends 5 to 6 cm. beyond the conus medullaris, downward into the filum terminale. [ [database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md) = Wikipedia:Filum_terminale ]

## Synonyms

 * filum terminale segment of pia mater [ [database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md) = FMA:83977 ]
 * pars pialis fili terminalis [ [database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md) = FMA:83977, [database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md) = FMA:TA, [has_synonym_type](../../pe/oboInOwl#hasSynonymType.md) = http://purl.obolibrary.org/obo/uberon/core#LATIN ]
 * terminal filum [ [database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md) = FMA:83977 ]
 * coccygeal ligament

## Cross-references

 * EHDAA2:0000510
 * EHDAA:6686
 * EMAPA:18220
 * FMA:83977
 * NeuroNames:1629
 * SCTID:361344005
 * VHOG:0000547
 * Wikipedia:Filum_terminale
 * http://upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/f/f4/Gray662.png

## Subsets


## Superclasses

 * [tissue](../../UBERON/79/UBERON_0000479.md)
 * [ectoderm-derived structure](../../UBERON/21/UBERON_0004121.md)
 * [part_of](../../BFO/50/BFO_0000050.md) some [spinal cord](../../UBERON/40/UBERON_0002240.md)

## Equivalencies


## Other Logical Axioms


## Other Annotations

 * *[external_definition](../../UBPROP/01/UBPROP_0000001.md)* = The slender, thread-like continuation of the spinal cord below the origin of the lumbar nerves. [Dorian_AF, Elsevier's_encyclopaedic_dictionary_of_medicine, Part_B:_Anatomy_(1988)_Amsterdam_etc.:_Elsevier][VHOG]
 * *[homologous_in](../../core#homologous/in/core#homologous_in.md)* = http://purl.obolibrary.org/obo/NCBITaxon_7742

## Usage


## External Comments

