
## Class : autopalatine

 * *IRI* = http://purl.obolibrary.org/obo/UBERON_2000620
 * *Label* = autopalatine
 * *Definition* = Endochondral bone that is part of the antero-lateral region of the palate. Commonly, it articulates with the maxilla anterolaterally and with the ethmoidal region medially. It may also articulate with the dermopalatine ventro-laterally and with the entopterygoid posteriorly. The autopalatine is paired. [ [database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md) = ZFIN:curator ]
 * *Comment* = The cartilaginous autopalatine forms from the anterior palatoquadrate arch. Possession of a dorsomedial process, which abuts the ethmoid, is a unique feature shared by Cypriniformes (Fink and Fink, 1981). The palatine has two components, the autopalatine (derived from pars autopalatine) and the dermal component having teeth, the dermopalatine Arratia & Schultze 1990. The element in cypriniforms is only the cartilage part, so that it is more correct to name it autopalatine and not as palatine in general that it implies a fusion of elements (as in perciforms).

## Synonyms

 * palatines [ [database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md) = TAO:0000620, [has_synonym_type](../../pe/oboInOwl#hasSynonymType.md) = http://purl.obolibrary.org/obo/core#PLURAL ]
 * palatine bone [ [database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md) = TAO:0000620 ]

## Cross-references

 * ZFA:0000620

## Subsets


## Superclasses

 * [endochondral bone](../../UBERON/13/UBERON_0002513.md)
 * [endoderm-derived structure](../../UBERON/19/UBERON_0004119.md)
 * [bone of upper jaw](../../UBERON/97/UBERON_0011597.md)
 * [part_of](../../BFO/50/BFO_0000050.md) some [palatoquadrate arch](../../UBERON/85/UBERON_0011085.md)
 * [overlaps](../../RO/31/RO_0002131.md) some [autopalatine-lateral ethmoid joint](../../UBERON/08/UBERON_2001608.md)
 * [overlaps](../../RO/31/RO_0002131.md) some [autopalatine-vomer joint](../../UBERON/84/UBERON_2001784.md)
 * [overlaps](../../RO/31/RO_0002131.md) some [autopalatine-maxillary joint](../../UBERON/42/UBERON_2001942.md)
 * [develops_from](../../RO/02/RO_0002202.md) some [palatoquadrate cartilage](../../UBERON/52/UBERON_0004752.md)

## Equivalencies


## Other Logical Axioms


## Other Annotations

 * *[definition](../../IAO/15/IAO_0000115.md)* = Endochondral bone that is part of the antero-lateral region of the palate. Commonly, it articulates with the maxilla anterolaterally and with the ethmoidal region medially. It may also articulate with the dermopalatine ventro-laterally and with the entopterygoid posteriorly. The autopalatine is paired.
 * *[core#provenance_notes](../../core#provenance/es/core#provenance_notes.md)* = This class was sourced from an external ontology (teleost_anatomy). Its definitions, naming conventions and relationships may need to be checked for compatibility with uberon
 * *[oboInOwl#created_by](../../oboInOwl#created/by/oboInOwl#created_by.md)* = teleost_anatomy_curators
 * *[database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md)* = ZFA:0000620
 * *[has_exact_synonym](../../ym/oboInOwl#hasExactSynonym.md)* = palatines
 * *[has_related_synonym](../../ym/oboInOwl#hasRelatedSynonym.md)* = palatine bone
 * *[rdf-schema#comment](../../nt/rdf-schema#comment.md)* = The cartilaginous autopalatine forms from the anterior palatoquadrate arch. Possession of a dorsomedial process, which abuts the ethmoid, is a unique feature shared by Cypriniformes (Fink and Fink, 1981). The palatine has two components, the autopalatine (derived from pars autopalatine) and the dermal component having teeth, the dermopalatine Arratia & Schultze 1990. The element in cypriniforms is only the cartilage part, so that it is more correct to name it autopalatine and not as palatine in general that it implies a fusion of elements (as in perciforms).
 * *[rdf-schema#label](../../el/rdf-schema#label.md)* = autopalatine

## Usage

 * -
 * [anterior dorsomedial process of autopalatine](../../UBERON/78/UBERON_2001578.md) SubClassOf [part_of](../../BFO/50/BFO_0000050.md) some [autopalatine](../../UBERON/20/UBERON_2000620.md)
 * [autopalatine-lateral ethmoid joint](../../UBERON/08/UBERON_2001608.md) == [connects](../../RO/76/RO_0002176.md) some [autopalatine](../../UBERON/20/UBERON_2000620.md) and [connects](../../RO/76/RO_0002176.md) some [lateral ethmoid bone](../../UBERON/26/UBERON_2000226.md) and [skeletal joint](../../UBERON/82/UBERON_0000982.md)
 * [autopalatine-lateral ethmoid joint](../../UBERON/08/UBERON_2001608.md) SubClassOf [connects](../../RO/76/RO_0002176.md) some [autopalatine](../../UBERON/20/UBERON_2000620.md)
 * [autopalatine-maxillary joint](../../UBERON/42/UBERON_2001942.md) == [connects](../../RO/76/RO_0002176.md) some [autopalatine](../../UBERON/20/UBERON_2000620.md) and [connects](../../RO/76/RO_0002176.md) some [maxilla](../../UBERON/97/UBERON_0002397.md) and [skeletal joint](../../UBERON/82/UBERON_0000982.md)
 * [autopalatine-maxillary joint](../../UBERON/42/UBERON_2001942.md) SubClassOf [connects](../../RO/76/RO_0002176.md) some [autopalatine](../../UBERON/20/UBERON_2000620.md)
 * [autopalatine-vomer joint](../../UBERON/84/UBERON_2001784.md) == [connects](../../RO/76/RO_0002176.md) some [autopalatine](../../UBERON/20/UBERON_2000620.md) and [connects](../../RO/76/RO_0002176.md) some [vomer](../../UBERON/96/UBERON_0002396.md) and [skeletal joint](../../UBERON/82/UBERON_0000982.md)
 * [autopalatine-vomer joint](../../UBERON/84/UBERON_2001784.md) SubClassOf [connects](../../RO/76/RO_0002176.md) some [autopalatine](../../UBERON/20/UBERON_2000620.md)
 * [autopalatine](../../UBERON/20/UBERON_2000620.md) SubClassOf [bone of upper jaw](../../UBERON/97/UBERON_0011597.md)
 * [autopalatine](../../UBERON/20/UBERON_2000620.md) SubClassOf [develops_from](../../RO/02/RO_0002202.md) some [palatoquadrate cartilage](../../UBERON/52/UBERON_0004752.md)
 * [autopalatine](../../UBERON/20/UBERON_2000620.md) SubClassOf [endochondral bone](../../UBERON/13/UBERON_0002513.md)
 * [autopalatine](../../UBERON/20/UBERON_2000620.md) SubClassOf [endoderm-derived structure](../../UBERON/19/UBERON_0004119.md)
 * [autopalatine](../../UBERON/20/UBERON_2000620.md) SubClassOf [overlaps](../../RO/31/RO_0002131.md) some [autopalatine-lateral ethmoid joint](../../UBERON/08/UBERON_2001608.md)
 * [autopalatine](../../UBERON/20/UBERON_2000620.md) SubClassOf [overlaps](../../RO/31/RO_0002131.md) some [autopalatine-maxillary joint](../../UBERON/42/UBERON_2001942.md)
 * [autopalatine](../../UBERON/20/UBERON_2000620.md) SubClassOf [overlaps](../../RO/31/RO_0002131.md) some [autopalatine-vomer joint](../../UBERON/84/UBERON_2001784.md)
 * [autopalatine](../../UBERON/20/UBERON_2000620.md) SubClassOf [part_of](../../BFO/50/BFO_0000050.md) some [palatoquadrate arch](../../UBERON/85/UBERON_0011085.md)

## External Comments

