
## Class : hypomaxilla

 * *IRI* = http://purl.obolibrary.org/obo/UBERON_2002020
 * *Label* = hypomaxilla
 * *Definition* = Dermal bone bearing teeth located between the distal end of the premaxilla and the middle of the maxilla. The hypomaxilla is a paired bone. [ [database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md) = TAO:ga_tg ]
 * *Comment* = Hypomaxilla is a bone restricted to some clupeiforms. See Berry (1964) for a detailed account of the distribution of the hypomaxilla within clupeiforms and specifically in Herengula.

## Synonyms


## Cross-references


## Subsets


## Superclasses

 * [mixed ectoderm/mesoderm/endoderm-derived structure](../../UBERON/78/UBERON_0000078.md)
 * [dermal bone](../../UBERON/07/UBERON_0008907.md)
 * [bone of upper jaw](../../UBERON/97/UBERON_0011597.md)
 * [part_of](../../BFO/50/BFO_0000050.md) some [dermatocranium](../../UBERON/13/UBERON_0003113.md)
 * [part_of](../../BFO/50/BFO_0000050.md) some [palatoquadrate arch](../../UBERON/85/UBERON_0011085.md)

## Equivalencies


## Other Logical Axioms


## Other Annotations

 * *[definition](../../IAO/15/IAO_0000115.md)* = Dermal bone bearing teeth located between the distal end of the premaxilla and the middle of the maxilla. The hypomaxilla is a paired bone.
 * *[core#provenance_notes](../../core#provenance/es/core#provenance_notes.md)* = This class was sourced from an external ontology (teleost_anatomy). Its definitions, naming conventions and relationships may need to be checked for compatibility with uberon
 * *[oboInOwl#created_by](../../oboInOwl#created/by/oboInOwl#created_by.md)* = teleost_anatomy_curators
 * *[rdf-schema#comment](../../nt/rdf-schema#comment.md)* = Hypomaxilla is a bone restricted to some clupeiforms. See Berry (1964) for a detailed account of the distribution of the hypomaxilla within clupeiforms and specifically in Herengula.
 * *[rdf-schema#label](../../el/rdf-schema#label.md)* = hypomaxilla

## Usage

 * -
 * [hypomaxilla](../../UBERON/20/UBERON_2002020.md) SubClassOf [bone of upper jaw](../../UBERON/97/UBERON_0011597.md)
 * [hypomaxilla](../../UBERON/20/UBERON_2002020.md) SubClassOf [dermal bone](../../UBERON/07/UBERON_0008907.md)
 * [hypomaxilla](../../UBERON/20/UBERON_2002020.md) SubClassOf [mixed ectoderm/mesoderm/endoderm-derived structure](../../UBERON/78/UBERON_0000078.md)
 * [hypomaxilla](../../UBERON/20/UBERON_2002020.md) SubClassOf [part_of](../../BFO/50/BFO_0000050.md) some [dermatocranium](../../UBERON/13/UBERON_0003113.md)
 * [hypomaxilla](../../UBERON/20/UBERON_2002020.md) SubClassOf [part_of](../../BFO/50/BFO_0000050.md) some [palatoquadrate arch](../../UBERON/85/UBERON_0011085.md)

## External Comments

