
## Class : sweat gland

 * *IRI* = http://purl.obolibrary.org/obo/UBERON_0001820
 * *Label* = sweat gland
 * *Definition* = Sweat glands are exocrine glands, found in the skin of all mammal species, that are used for body temperature regulation. In humans a system of apocrine - and merocrine sweat glands is the main method of cooling. Many other mammals rely on panting or other means as a primary source of cooling, but still use sweat glands to aid in body temperature regulation. Sweat also serves a purpose of increasing friction on the palms of hands or the pads of paws. Both apocrine and merocrine sweat glands contain myoepithelial cells (from Greek myo-, 'muscle'), specialized epithelial cells located between the gland cells and the underlying basal lamina. Myoepithelial cell contractions squeeze the gland and discharge the accumulated secretions. The secretory activities of the gland cells and the contractions of myoepithelial cells are controlled by both the autonomic nervous system and by the circulating hormones. Additionally, ceruminous glands, which produce ear wax, and mammary glands, which produce milk, are frequently considered to be modified sweat glands. [WP,unvetted]. [[database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md) =  + Wikipedia:Sweat_gland]
 * *Comment* = todo - check if all sweat glands are epidermal - see EMAPA:29743

## Synonyms

 * glandula sudorifera [[database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md) =  + BTO:0001331]
 * sudoriferous gland [[database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md) =  + BTO:0001331]
 * sudoriparous gland [[database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md) =  + BTO:0001331]

## Cross-references

 * BTO:0001331
 * CALOHA:TS-0993
 * EV:0100160
 * FMA:59152
 * GAID:943
 * MA:0000150
 * MESH:A10.336.899
 * OpenCyc:Mx4rvVjx15wpEbGdrcN5Y29ycA
 * SCTID:361700009
 * UMLS:C0038989 [[oboInOwl#source](../../ce/oboInOwl#source.md) =  + ncithesaurus:Sweat_Gland]
 * VHOG:0001467
 * Wikipedia:Sweat_gland
 * http://upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/6/6d/Skin.svg
 * http://upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/6/6d/Skin.svg/200px-Skin.svg.png
 * ncithesaurus:Sweat_Gland

## Subsets

 * http://purl.obolibrary.org/obo/uberon/core#organ_slim
 * http://purl.obolibrary.org/obo/uberon/core#uberon_slim

## Superclasses

 * [exocrine gland](../../UBERON/65/UBERON_0002365.md)
 * [epidermis gland](../../UBERON/71/UBERON_0007771.md)
 * [part_of](../../BFO/50/BFO_0000050.md) some [epidermis](../../UBERON/03/UBERON_0001003.md)
 * [only_in_taxon](../../RO/60/RO_0002160.md) some [Mammalia](../../NCBITaxon/74/NCBITaxon_40674.md)
 * [develops from](../../RO/02/RO_0002202.md) some [sweat gland placode](../../UBERON/89/UBERON_0005089.md)
 * [produces](../../RO/00/RO_0003000.md) some [sweat](../../UBERON/89/UBERON_0001089.md)
 * [has_quality](../../SIO/08/SIO_000008.md) some [cylindrical](../../PATO/73/PATO_0001873.md)

## Equivalencies

 * ObjectIntersectionOf(<http://purl.obolibrary.org/obo/UBERON_0002530> ObjectSomeValuesFrom(<http://purl.obolibrary.org/obo/RO_0003000> <http://purl.obolibrary.org/obo/UBERON_0001089>))

## Other Logical Axioms


## Other Annotations

 * *[external_definition](../../UBPROP/01/UBPROP_0000001.md)* = A gland that secretes sweat, found in the dermis or subcutaneous tissue, opening by a duct on the body surface. [TFD][VHOG]
 * *[homology_notes](../../UBPROP/03/UBPROP_0000003.md)* = Sweat glands (also called sudoriferous glands) are unique to mammals.[well established][VHOG]
 * *[homologous_in](../../core#homologous/in/core#homologous_in.md)* = http://purl.obolibrary.org/obo/NCBITaxon_7742
 * *[has_obo_namespace](../../ce/oboInOwl#hasOBONamespace.md)* = uberon
 * *[oboInOwl#id](../../id/oboInOwl#id.md)* = UBERON:0001820

## External Comments

