
## Class : basihyal lingual process

 * *IRI* = http://purl.obolibrary.org/obo/UBERON_0011620
 * *Label* = basihyal lingual process
 * *Definition* = A projection on the basihyal bone. Laterally the lingual process is compressed. It has a blunt pointed free end, and its lateral surfaces are slightly concave. The dorsal border is thin and irregular, and the ventral border is thick and rough. In the living animal the lingual process is embedded within the root of the tongue. [ [database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md) = MURDOCH:1080 ]

## Synonyms

 * lingual process of basihyoid
 * lingual process of basihyoid bone
 * lingual process of hyoid

## Cross-references


## Subsets


## Superclasses

 * [endoderm-derived structure](../../UBERON/19/UBERON_0004119.md)
 * [bony projection](../../UBERON/30/UBERON_0004530.md)
 * [structure with developmental contribution from neural crest](../../UBERON/14/UBERON_0010314.md)
 * [skeletal element projection](../../UBERON/00/UBERON_4100000.md)
 * [part_of](../../BFO/50/BFO_0000050.md) some [basihyal bone](../../UBERON/18/UBERON_0011618.md)

## Equivalencies


## Other Logical Axioms


## Other Annotations

 * *[definition](../../IAO/15/IAO_0000115.md)* = A projection on the basihyal bone. Laterally the lingual process is compressed. It has a blunt pointed free end, and its lateral surfaces are slightly concave. The dorsal border is thin and irregular, and the ventral border is thick and rough. In the living animal the lingual process is embedded within the root of the tongue.
 * *[has_exact_synonym](../../ym/oboInOwl#hasExactSynonym.md)* = lingual process of basihyoid
 * *[has_exact_synonym](../../ym/oboInOwl#hasExactSynonym.md)* = lingual process of basihyoid bone
 * *[has_related_synonym](../../ym/oboInOwl#hasRelatedSynonym.md)* = lingual process of hyoid
 * *[rdf-schema#label](../../el/rdf-schema#label.md)* = basihyal lingual process

## Usage

 * -
 * [basihyal lingual process](../../UBERON/20/UBERON_0011620.md) SubClassOf [bony projection](../../UBERON/30/UBERON_0004530.md)
 * [basihyal lingual process](../../UBERON/20/UBERON_0011620.md) SubClassOf [endoderm-derived structure](../../UBERON/19/UBERON_0004119.md)
 * [basihyal lingual process](../../UBERON/20/UBERON_0011620.md) SubClassOf [part_of](../../BFO/50/BFO_0000050.md) some [basihyal bone](../../UBERON/18/UBERON_0011618.md)
 * [basihyal lingual process](../../UBERON/20/UBERON_0011620.md) SubClassOf [skeletal element projection](../../UBERON/00/UBERON_4100000.md)
 * [basihyal lingual process](../../UBERON/20/UBERON_0011620.md) SubClassOf [structure with developmental contribution from neural crest](../../UBERON/14/UBERON_0010314.md)

## External Comments

