
## Class : cumulus cell

 * *IRI* = http://purl.obolibrary.org/obo/CL_0000711
 * *Label* = cumulus cell
 * *Definition* = Cumulus cell is a specialized granulosa cell that surrounds and nourishes the oocyte. This cell-type surrounds the fully-grown oocyte to form a cumulus-oocyte complex (abbr. COC). The terms cumulus oophorus cells, cumulus granulosa cells, cumulus oophorous granulosa cells, granulosa-cumulus cells are used to make a distinction between this cell and the other functionally different subpopulation of granulosa cells at the wall of the Graafian follicle. [ [database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md) = GOC:tfm, [database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md) = http://www.copewithcytokines.org/cope.cgi?key=cumulus%20cells ]

## Synonyms


## Cross-references

 * BTO:0002236

## Subsets


## Superclasses

 * [protein secreting cell](../../CL/54/CL_0000154.md)
 * [follicular cell of ovary](../../CL/74/CL_0002174.md)
 * [develops_from](../../RO/02/RO_0002202.md) some [granulosa cell](../../CL/01/CL_0000501.md)

## Equivalencies


## Other Logical Axioms


## Other Annotations

 * *[definition](../../IAO/15/IAO_0000115.md)* = Cumulus cell is a specialized granulosa cell that surrounds and nourishes the oocyte. This cell-type surrounds the fully-grown oocyte to form a cumulus-oocyte complex (abbr. COC). The terms cumulus oophorus cells, cumulus granulosa cells, cumulus oophorous granulosa cells, granulosa-cumulus cells are used to make a distinction between this cell and the other functionally different subpopulation of granulosa cells at the wall of the Graafian follicle.
 * *[database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md)* = BTO:0002236
 * *[rdf-schema#label](../../el/rdf-schema#label.md)* = cumulus cell

## Usage

 * -
 * [corona radiata cell](../../CL/13/CL_0000713.md) SubClassOf [cumulus cell](../../CL/11/CL_0000711.md)
 * [cumulus cell](../../CL/11/CL_0000711.md) SubClassOf [develops_from](../../RO/02/RO_0002202.md) some [granulosa cell](../../CL/01/CL_0000501.md)
 * [cumulus cell](../../CL/11/CL_0000711.md) SubClassOf [follicular cell of ovary](../../CL/74/CL_0002174.md)
 * [cumulus cell](../../CL/11/CL_0000711.md) SubClassOf [protein secreting cell](../../CL/54/CL_0000154.md)

## External Comments

