
## Class : base of crypt of Lieberkuhn

 * *IRI* = http://purl.obolibrary.org/obo/UBERON_0013739
 * *Label* = base of crypt of Lieberkuhn
 * *Definition* = The basal portion (further from lumen) of an intestinal crypt. Contains multipotent stem cells. Stem cells in the crypts divide to form daughter cells. One daughter cell from each stem cell division is retained as a stem cell. The other becomes committed to differentiate along one of four pathways to become an enterocyte, enteroendocrine cell, goblet cell or Paneth cell. [ [database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md) = UBERON:md, [database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md) = http://orcid.org/0000-0002-6601-2165 ]

## Synonyms

 * basal portion of intestinal gland
 * base of intestinal gland
 * base part of epithelium of intestinal gland

## Cross-references


## Subsets


## Superclasses

 * [epithelium of crypt of Lieberkuhn](../../UBERON/84/UBERON_0011184.md)
 * [part_of](../../BFO/50/BFO_0000050.md) some [crypt of Lieberkuhn](../../UBERON/83/UBERON_0001983.md)
 * [contains process](../../BFO/67/BFO_0000067.md) some [stem cell division](../../GO/45/GO_0017145.md)
 * [continuous with](../../RO/50/RO_0002150.md) some [wall of crypt of Lieberkuhn](../../UBERON/40/UBERON_0013740.md)

## Equivalencies

 * [continuous with](../../RO/50/RO_0002150.md) some [wall of crypt of Lieberkuhn](../../UBERON/40/UBERON_0013740.md) and [epithelium](../../UBERON/83/UBERON_0000483.md) and [part_of](../../BFO/50/BFO_0000050.md) some [crypt of Lieberkuhn](../../UBERON/83/UBERON_0001983.md)

## Other Logical Axioms


## Other Annotations

 * *[definition](../../IAO/15/IAO_0000115.md)* = The basal portion (further from lumen) of an intestinal crypt. Contains multipotent stem cells. Stem cells in the crypts divide to form daughter cells. One daughter cell from each stem cell division is retained as a stem cell. The other becomes committed to differentiate along one of four pathways to become an enterocyte, enteroendocrine cell, goblet cell or Paneth cell.
 * *[taxon_notes](../../UBPROP/08/UBPROP_0000008.md)* = Clearly defined prolifieration zones found in mammals. Not observed in agnathostomes, larval amphibians. Described in advanced species of fish and adult amphibians. 
 * *[has_exact_synonym](../../ym/oboInOwl#hasExactSynonym.md)* = basal portion of intestinal gland
 * *[has_exact_synonym](../../ym/oboInOwl#hasExactSynonym.md)* = base of intestinal gland
 * *[has_exact_synonym](../../ym/oboInOwl#hasExactSynonym.md)* = base part of epithelium of intestinal gland
 * *[rdf-schema#label](../../el/rdf-schema#label.md)* = base of crypt of Lieberkuhn

## Usage

 * -
 * [base of crypt of Lieberkuhn of large intestine](../../UBERON/41/UBERON_0013741.md) == [base of crypt of Lieberkuhn](../../UBERON/39/UBERON_0013739.md) and [part_of](../../BFO/50/BFO_0000050.md) some [large intestine](../../UBERON/59/UBERON_0000059.md)
 * [base of crypt of Lieberkuhn of large intestine](../../UBERON/41/UBERON_0013741.md) SubClassOf [base of crypt of Lieberkuhn](../../UBERON/39/UBERON_0013739.md)
 * [base of crypt of Lieberkuhn of small intestine](../../UBERON/43/UBERON_0013743.md) == [base of crypt of Lieberkuhn](../../UBERON/39/UBERON_0013739.md) and [part_of](../../BFO/50/BFO_0000050.md) some [small intestine](../../UBERON/08/UBERON_0002108.md)
 * [base of crypt of Lieberkuhn of small intestine](../../UBERON/43/UBERON_0013743.md) SubClassOf [base of crypt of Lieberkuhn](../../UBERON/39/UBERON_0013739.md)
 * [base of crypt of Lieberkuhn](../../UBERON/39/UBERON_0013739.md) == [continuous with](../../RO/50/RO_0002150.md) some [wall of crypt of Lieberkuhn](../../UBERON/40/UBERON_0013740.md) and [epithelium](../../UBERON/83/UBERON_0000483.md) and [part_of](../../BFO/50/BFO_0000050.md) some [crypt of Lieberkuhn](../../UBERON/83/UBERON_0001983.md)
 * [base of crypt of Lieberkuhn](../../UBERON/39/UBERON_0013739.md) SubClassOf [contains process](../../BFO/67/BFO_0000067.md) some [stem cell division](../../GO/45/GO_0017145.md)
 * [base of crypt of Lieberkuhn](../../UBERON/39/UBERON_0013739.md) SubClassOf [continuous with](../../RO/50/RO_0002150.md) some [wall of crypt of Lieberkuhn](../../UBERON/40/UBERON_0013740.md)
 * [base of crypt of Lieberkuhn](../../UBERON/39/UBERON_0013739.md) SubClassOf [epithelium of crypt of Lieberkuhn](../../UBERON/84/UBERON_0011184.md)
 * [base of crypt of Lieberkuhn](../../UBERON/39/UBERON_0013739.md) SubClassOf [part_of](../../BFO/50/BFO_0000050.md) some [crypt of Lieberkuhn](../../UBERON/83/UBERON_0001983.md)
 * [wall of crypt of Lieberkuhn](../../UBERON/40/UBERON_0013740.md) == [continuous with](../../RO/50/RO_0002150.md) some [base of crypt of Lieberkuhn](../../UBERON/39/UBERON_0013739.md) and [epithelium](../../UBERON/83/UBERON_0000483.md) and [part_of](../../BFO/50/BFO_0000050.md) some [crypt of Lieberkuhn](../../UBERON/83/UBERON_0001983.md)
 * [wall of crypt of Lieberkuhn](../../UBERON/40/UBERON_0013740.md) SubClassOf [continuous with](../../RO/50/RO_0002150.md) some [base of crypt of Lieberkuhn](../../UBERON/39/UBERON_0013739.md)

## External Comments

