
## Class : cerebellar Golgi cell

 * *IRI* = http://purl.obolibrary.org/obo/CL_0000119
 * *Label* = cerebellar Golgi cell
 * *Definition* = Large intrinsic neuron located in the granule layer of the cerebellar cortex that extends its dendrites into the molecular layer where they receive contact from parallel fibers. The axon of the Golgi cell enters ramifies densely in the granule layer and enters into a complex arrangement with mossy fiber terminals and granule cell dendrites to form the cerebellar glomerulus. Llinas, Walton and Lang. In The Synaptic Organization of the Brain. 5th ed. 2004. [ [rdf-schema#comment](../../nt/rdf-schema#comment.md) = NIFSTD:sao1415726815 ]

## Synonyms

 * Golgi cell
 * Golgi neuron
 * cerebellar Golgi neuron
 * cerebellum Golgi cell

## Cross-references


## Subsets


## Superclasses

 * [GABAergic interneuron](../../CL/05/CL_0011005.md)
 * [part_of](../../BFO/50/BFO_0000050.md) some [cerebellar cortex](../../UBERON/29/UBERON_0002129.md)

## Equivalencies


## Other Logical Axioms


## Other Annotations

 * *[definition](../../IAO/15/IAO_0000115.md)* = Large intrinsic neuron located in the granule layer of the cerebellar cortex that extends its dendrites into the molecular layer where they receive contact from parallel fibers. The axon of the Golgi cell enters ramifies densely in the granule layer and enters into a complex arrangement with mossy fiber terminals and granule cell dendrites to form the cerebellar glomerulus. Llinas, Walton and Lang. In The Synaptic Organization of the Brain. 5th ed. 2004.
 * *[has_exact_synonym](../../ym/oboInOwl#hasExactSynonym.md)* = Golgi cell
 * *[has_exact_synonym](../../ym/oboInOwl#hasExactSynonym.md)* = Golgi neuron
 * *[has_exact_synonym](../../ym/oboInOwl#hasExactSynonym.md)* = cerebellar Golgi neuron
 * *[has_exact_synonym](../../ym/oboInOwl#hasExactSynonym.md)* = cerebellum Golgi cell
 * *[rdf-schema#label](../../el/rdf-schema#label.md)* = cerebellar Golgi cell

## Usage

 * -
 * [cerebellar Golgi cell](../../CL/19/CL_0000119.md) SubClassOf [GABAergic interneuron](../../CL/05/CL_0011005.md)
 * [cerebellar Golgi cell](../../CL/19/CL_0000119.md) SubClassOf [part_of](../../BFO/50/BFO_0000050.md) some [cerebellar cortex](../../UBERON/29/UBERON_0002129.md)
 * [granular layer of cerebellar cortex](../../UBERON/56/UBERON_0002956.md) SubClassOf [has_part](../../BFO/51/BFO_0000051.md) some [cerebellar Golgi cell](../../CL/19/CL_0000119.md)

## External Comments

