
## Class : CD1a-positive dermal dendritic cell

 * *IRI* = http://purl.obolibrary.org/obo/CL_0002529
 * *Label* = CD1a-positive dermal dendritic cell
 * *Definition* = A dermal dendritic cell that is CD1a-positive and CD14-negative. [ [database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md) = GOC:dsd, [database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md) = PMID:20309010 ]
 * *Comment* = Reside in the dermis. They are also CD11c-positive, CD40-positive, CD207-negative (langerin), CD209-negative (DC-SIGN), and CD324-negative (E-cadherin). When activated, they are capable of producing CXCL8 (IL-8) and IL-15. Possibly a precursor of Langerhans cells or equivalent of langerin-positive dermal DCs in the mouse.

## Synonyms

 * CD1a+ dermal DC

## Cross-references


## Subsets


## Superclasses

 * [dermal dendritic cell](../../CL/06/CL_0001006.md)

## Equivalencies


## Other Logical Axioms


## Other Annotations

 * *[definition](../../IAO/15/IAO_0000115.md)* = A dermal dendritic cell that is CD1a-positive and CD14-negative.
 * *[has_exact_synonym](../../ym/oboInOwl#hasExactSynonym.md)* = CD1a+ dermal DC
 * *[rdf-schema#comment](../../nt/rdf-schema#comment.md)* = Reside in the dermis. They are also CD11c-positive, CD40-positive, CD207-negative (langerin), CD209-negative (DC-SIGN), and CD324-negative (E-cadherin). When activated, they are capable of producing CXCL8 (IL-8) and IL-15. Possibly a precursor of Langerhans cells or equivalent of langerin-positive dermal DCs in the mouse.
 * *[rdf-schema#label](../../el/rdf-schema#label.md)* = CD1a-positive dermal dendritic cell

## Usage

 * -
 * [CD1a-positive dermal dendritic cell](../../CL/29/CL_0002529.md) SubClassOf [dermal dendritic cell](../../CL/06/CL_0001006.md)
 * [immature CD1a-positive dermal dendritic cell](../../CL/30/CL_0002530.md) SubClassOf [CD1a-positive dermal dendritic cell](../../CL/29/CL_0002529.md)
 * [mature CD1a-positive dermal dendritic cell](../../CL/31/CL_0002531.md) SubClassOf [CD1a-positive dermal dendritic cell](../../CL/29/CL_0002529.md)

## External Comments

