
## Class : pampiniform plexus

 * *IRI* = http://purl.obolibrary.org/obo/UBERON_0001330
 * *Label* = pampiniform plexus
 * *Definition* = The pampiniform plexus is a network of many small veins found in the male spermatic cord. It is formed by the union of multiple spermatic veins from the back of the testis and tributaries from the epididymis. The veins of the plexus ascend along the cord in front of the ductus deferens. Below the subcutaneous inguinal ring they unite to form three or four veins, which pass along the inguinal canal, and, entering the abdomen through the abdominal inguinal ring, coalesce to form two veins. These again unite to form a single vein, the testicular vein, which opens on the right side into the inferior vena cava, at an acute angle, and on the left side into the left renal vein, at a right angle. The pampinoform plexus forms the chief mass of the cord. In addition to its function in venous return from the testes, the pampiniform plexus also plays a role in the temperature regulation of the testes. It acts as a heat exchanger, cooling blood in adjacent arteries. An abnormal enlargement of the pampiniform plexus is a medical condition called varicocele. [WP,unvetted]. [ [database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md) = http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Pampiniform_venous_plexus ]

## Synonyms

 * pampiniform venous plexus
 * plexus of veins of fascia of prostate
 * plexus venosus pampiniformis [ [database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md) = FMA:19607, [database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md) = FMA:TA, [has_synonym_type](../../pe/oboInOwl#hasSynonymType.md) = http://purl.obolibrary.org/obo/uberon/core#LATIN ]
 * venous plexus of fascia of prostate
 * venous plexus of fascia of prostate gland

## Cross-references

 * FMA:19607
 * MA:0001866
 * http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Pampiniform_venous_plexus
 * http://www.snomedbrowser.com/Codes/Details/279661001

## Subsets

 * http://purl.obolibrary.org/obo/uberon/core#uberon_slim

## Superclasses

 * [venous plexus](../../UBERON/93/UBERON_0001593.md)
 * [located_in](../../RO/25/RO_0001025.md) some [spermatic cord](../../UBERON/52/UBERON_0005352.md)

## Equivalencies


## Other Logical Axioms


## Other Annotations

 * *[definition](../../IAO/15/IAO_0000115.md)* = The pampiniform plexus is a network of many small veins found in the male spermatic cord. It is formed by the union of multiple spermatic veins from the back of the testis and tributaries from the epididymis. The veins of the plexus ascend along the cord in front of the ductus deferens. Below the subcutaneous inguinal ring they unite to form three or four veins, which pass along the inguinal canal, and, entering the abdomen through the abdominal inguinal ring, coalesce to form two veins. These again unite to form a single vein, the testicular vein, which opens on the right side into the inferior vena cava, at an acute angle, and on the left side into the left renal vein, at a right angle. The pampinoform plexus forms the chief mass of the cord. In addition to its function in venous return from the testes, the pampiniform plexus also plays a role in the temperature regulation of the testes. It acts as a heat exchanger, cooling blood in adjacent arteries. An abnormal enlargement of the pampiniform plexus is a medical condition called varicocele. [WP,unvetted].
 * *[editor note](../../IAO/16/IAO_0000116.md)* = This class was created automatically from a combination of ontologies
 * *[database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md)* = FMA:19607
 * *[database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md)* = MA:0001866
 * *[database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md)* = http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Pampiniform_venous_plexus
 * *[database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md)* = http://www.snomedbrowser.com/Codes/Details/279661001
 * *[has_exact_synonym](../../ym/oboInOwl#hasExactSynonym.md)* = pampiniform venous plexus
 * *[has_exact_synonym](../../ym/oboInOwl#hasExactSynonym.md)* = plexus of veins of fascia of prostate
 * *[has_exact_synonym](../../ym/oboInOwl#hasExactSynonym.md)* = plexus venosus pampiniformis
 * *[has_exact_synonym](../../ym/oboInOwl#hasExactSynonym.md)* = venous plexus of fascia of prostate
 * *[has_exact_synonym](../../ym/oboInOwl#hasExactSynonym.md)* = venous plexus of fascia of prostate gland
 * *[in_subset](../../et/oboInOwl#inSubset.md)* = http://purl.obolibrary.org/obo/uberon/core#uberon_slim
 * *[rdf-schema#label](../../el/rdf-schema#label.md)* = pampiniform plexus
 * *[depicted_by](../../depicted/by/depicted_by.md)* = http://upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/a/af/Gray1147.png

## Usage

 * -
 * [pampiniform plexus](../../UBERON/30/UBERON_0001330.md) SubClassOf [located_in](../../RO/25/RO_0001025.md) some [spermatic cord](../../UBERON/52/UBERON_0005352.md)
 * [pampiniform plexus](../../UBERON/30/UBERON_0001330.md) SubClassOf [venous plexus](../../UBERON/93/UBERON_0001593.md)
 * [testicular vein](../../UBERON/44/UBERON_0001144.md) SubClassOf [connected to](../../RO/70/RO_0002170.md) some [pampiniform plexus](../../UBERON/30/UBERON_0001330.md)

## External Comments

