
## Class : caudal appendage

 * *IRI* = http://purl.obolibrary.org/obo/UBERON_2002130
 * *Label* = caudal appendage
 * *Definition* = Multi-tissue structure that is region of the body posterior to the last anal-fin ray. [ [database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md) = TAO:wd ]
 * *Comment* = Comments: This is a gymnotiform structure. The caudal appendage can include vertebrae, a cartilginous rod, pterygiophores, anal-fin rays, and intermuscular bones.
Definition reference: Albert, JS and WL Fink. 2007. PHYLOGENETIC RELATIONSHIPS OF FOSSIL NEOTROPICAL ELECTRIC FISHES (OSTEICHTHYES: GYMNOTIFORMES) FROM THE UPPER MIOCENE OF BOLIVIA. Journal of Vertebrate Paleontology 27(1):17-25.

## Synonyms

 * caudal filament [ [database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md) = TAO:0002130 ]

## Cross-references


## Subsets


## Superclasses

 * [multi-tissue structure](../../UBERON/81/UBERON_0000481.md)
 * [mesoderm-derived structure](../../UBERON/20/UBERON_0004120.md)
 * [part_of](../../BFO/50/BFO_0000050.md) some [postcranial axial skeleton](../../UBERON/90/UBERON_0002090.md)

## Equivalencies


## Other Logical Axioms


## Other Annotations

 * *[definition](../../IAO/15/IAO_0000115.md)* = Multi-tissue structure that is region of the body posterior to the last anal-fin ray.
 * *[core#provenance_notes](../../core#provenance/es/core#provenance_notes.md)* = This class was sourced from an external ontology (teleost_anatomy). Its definitions, naming conventions and relationships may need to be checked for compatibility with uberon
 * *[oboInOwl#created_by](../../oboInOwl#created/by/oboInOwl#created_by.md)* = teleost_anatomy_curators
 * *[has_exact_synonym](../../ym/oboInOwl#hasExactSynonym.md)* = caudal filament
 * *[rdf-schema#comment](../../nt/rdf-schema#comment.md)* = Comments: This is a gymnotiform structure. The caudal appendage can include vertebrae, a cartilginous rod, pterygiophores, anal-fin rays, and intermuscular bones.
Definition reference: Albert, JS and WL Fink. 2007. PHYLOGENETIC RELATIONSHIPS OF FOSSIL NEOTROPICAL ELECTRIC FISHES (OSTEICHTHYES: GYMNOTIFORMES) FROM THE UPPER MIOCENE OF BOLIVIA. Journal of Vertebrate Paleontology 27(1):17-25.
 * *[rdf-schema#label](../../el/rdf-schema#label.md)* = caudal appendage

## Usage

 * -
 * [caudal appendage](../../UBERON/30/UBERON_2002130.md) SubClassOf [mesoderm-derived structure](../../UBERON/20/UBERON_0004120.md)
 * [caudal appendage](../../UBERON/30/UBERON_2002130.md) SubClassOf [multi-tissue structure](../../UBERON/81/UBERON_0000481.md)
 * [caudal appendage](../../UBERON/30/UBERON_2002130.md) SubClassOf [part_of](../../BFO/50/BFO_0000050.md) some [postcranial axial skeleton](../../UBERON/90/UBERON_0002090.md)

## External Comments

