
## Class : dental lamina

 * *IRI* = http://purl.obolibrary.org/obo/UBERON_0004825
 * *Label* = dental lamina
 * *Definition* = a band of epithelial tissue seen in histologic sections of a developing tooth. The dental lamina is first evidence of tooth development and begins at the sixth week in utero or three weeks after the rupture of the buccopharyngeal membrane. It is formed when cells of the oral ectoderm proliferate faster than cells of other areas. Best described as an in-growth of oral ectoderm, the dental lamina is frequently distinguished from the vestibular lamina, which develops concurrently. This dividing tissue is surrounded by and, some would argue, stimulated by ectomysenchymal growth. When it is present, the dental lamina connects the developing tooth bud to the epithelium of the oral cavity. Eventually, the dental lamina disintegrates into small clusters of epithelium and is resorbed. In situations when the clusters are not resorbed, (this remanent of the dental lamina is sometimes known as the glands of Serres) eruption cysts are formed over the developing tooth and delay its eruption into the oral cavity. This invagination of ectodermal tissues is the progenitor to the later ameloblasts and enamel while the ectomysenchyme is responsible for the odontogenic papilla and later odontoblasts. [[database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md) =  + Wikipedia:Dental_lamina]
 * *Comment* = Homology notes: In the epidermis of embryonic birds, there remains a transient thickening that is comparable to the early formation of the dental lamina in the mouse[PMID:10954731]. AO notes: check MA placement, this structure is the developing structure

## Synonyms

 * embryonic dental lamina
 * lamina dentalis [[database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md) =  + Wikipedia:Dental_lamina[has_synonym_type](../../pe/oboInOwl#hasSynonymType.md) =  + http://purl.obolibrary.org/obo/uberon/core#LATIN]

## Cross-references

 * EMAPA:18292
 * EMAPA:18295
 * EMAPA:18298
 * EMAPA:18301
 * MA:0001597
 * SCTID:362862007
 * Wikipedia:Dental_lamina
 * http://upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/7/7d/Dentallamina11-17-05.jpg

## Subsets


## Superclasses

 * [lamina](../../UBERON/57/UBERON_0000957.md)
 * [structure with developmental contribution from neural crest](../../UBERON/14/UBERON_0010314.md)
 * [ecto-epithelium](../../UBERON/71/UBERON_0010371.md)
 * [part_of](../../BFO/50/BFO_0000050.md) some [calcareous tooth](../../UBERON/91/UBERON_0001091.md)

## Equivalencies


## Other Logical Axioms


## Other Annotations

 * *[has_obo_namespace](../../ce/oboInOwl#hasOBONamespace.md)* = uberon
 * *[oboInOwl#id](../../id/oboInOwl#id.md)* = UBERON:0004825

## External Comments

