
## Class : caudal-fin organ

 * *IRI* = http://purl.obolibrary.org/obo/UBERON_2002125
 * *Label* = caudal-fin organ
 * *Definition* = Organ that consists of a pouch located on the ventral caudal-fin lobe, opening posteriorly, and composed of glandular tissue. The caudal-fin organ presumably functions to secrete pheromones during courtship. [ [database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md) = TAO:wd ]
 * *Comment* = Definition reference:
Weitzman SH, Menezes NA. 1998. Relationships of the tribes and genera of
the Glandulocaudiinae (Ostariophysi: Characiformes: Characidae), with a
description of a new genus. In: Malabarba LR, Reis RE, Vari RP, Lucena ZMS,
Lucena CAS, editors. Phylogeny and Classification of Neotropical Fishes.
Porto Alegre: EDIPUCRS. p 171-192.

## Synonyms

 * caudal fin organ [ [database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md) = TAO:0002125 ]
 * caudal sac [ [database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md) = TAO:0002125 ]
 * caudal organ [ [database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md) = TAO:0002125 ]
 * glandular organ [ [database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md) = TAO:0002125 ]

## Cross-references


## Subsets


## Superclasses

 * [compound organ](../../UBERON/03/UBERON_0003103.md)
 * [part_of](../../BFO/50/BFO_0000050.md) some [caudal fin](../../UBERON/64/UBERON_4000164.md)

## Equivalencies


## Other Logical Axioms


## Other Annotations

 * *[definition](../../IAO/15/IAO_0000115.md)* = Organ that consists of a pouch located on the ventral caudal-fin lobe, opening posteriorly, and composed of glandular tissue. The caudal-fin organ presumably functions to secrete pheromones during courtship.
 * *[core#provenance_notes](../../core#provenance/es/core#provenance_notes.md)* = This class was sourced from an external ontology (teleost_anatomy). Its definitions, naming conventions and relationships may need to be checked for compatibility with uberon
 * *[oboInOwl#created_by](../../oboInOwl#created/by/oboInOwl#created_by.md)* = teleost_anatomy_curators
 * *[has_broad_synonym](../../ym/oboInOwl#hasBroadSynonym.md)* = caudal organ
 * *[has_broad_synonym](../../ym/oboInOwl#hasBroadSynonym.md)* = glandular organ
 * *[has_exact_synonym](../../ym/oboInOwl#hasExactSynonym.md)* = caudal fin organ
 * *[has_exact_synonym](../../ym/oboInOwl#hasExactSynonym.md)* = caudal sac
 * *[rdf-schema#comment](../../nt/rdf-schema#comment.md)* = Definition reference:
Weitzman SH, Menezes NA. 1998. Relationships of the tribes and genera of
the Glandulocaudiinae (Ostariophysi: Characiformes: Characidae), with a
description of a new genus. In: Malabarba LR, Reis RE, Vari RP, Lucena ZMS,
Lucena CAS, editors. Phylogeny and Classification of Neotropical Fishes.
Porto Alegre: EDIPUCRS. p 171-192.
 * *[rdf-schema#label](../../el/rdf-schema#label.md)* = caudal-fin organ

## Usage

 * -
 * [caudal-fin organ](../../UBERON/25/UBERON_2002125.md) SubClassOf [compound organ](../../UBERON/03/UBERON_0003103.md)
 * [caudal-fin organ](../../UBERON/25/UBERON_2002125.md) SubClassOf [part_of](../../BFO/50/BFO_0000050.md) some [caudal fin](../../UBERON/64/UBERON_4000164.md)
 * [pouch scale](../../UBERON/22/UBERON_2002122.md) SubClassOf [part_of](../../BFO/50/BFO_0000050.md) some [caudal-fin organ](../../UBERON/25/UBERON_2002125.md)

## External Comments

