
## Class : mammary ridge

 * *IRI* = http://purl.obolibrary.org/obo/UBERON_0008425
 * *Label* = mammary ridge
 * *Definition* = A bandlike thickening of ectoderm in the embryo extending from just below the axilla to the inguinal region and giving rise to the mammary glands[Stedmans]. One of two parallel lines, formed by thickenings of the epidermis (the mammary ridge) along the ventral surface of mammals of both sexes. They extend from the upper limbs (arms) to the lower limbs (legs) and are developed in the embryo. They give rise to the mammary glands and nipples but are otherwise usually not visible in the adult. The first manifestation of the mammary gland in many mammals is an elevated ridge or milk line, which then fragments into individual buds in specific regions lateral of the dorsal midline. These buds are either located in the thoracic region in primates, in the inguinal area in ungulates or along the entire length of the trunk in rodents and pigs. In humans, milk lines appear in the seventh week of embryonic development. After initial development of the milk lines they go into remission. Nipples develop on the milk lines of mammals. Most humans have two nipples, but in some cases more than two will develop. In most cases, these 'third nipples'—and sometimes fourth nipple—grow along the milk line[WP]. [ [database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md) = Wikipedia:Milk_line, [database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md) = http://dictionary.reference.com/browse/mammary%20ridge ]
 * *Comment* = split ridge and milk line?

## Synonyms

 * mammary fold [ [database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md) = http://dictionary.reference.com/browse/mammary+ridge ]
 * milk line [ [database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md) = Wikipedia:Milk_line ]

## Cross-references

 * EMAPA:18541
 * Wikipedia:Milk_line

## Subsets


## Superclasses

 * [developing anatomical structure](../../UBERON/23/UBERON_0005423.md)
 * [part_of](../../BFO/50/BFO_0000050.md) some [embryo](../../UBERON/22/UBERON_0000922.md)
 * [part_of](../../BFO/50/BFO_0000050.md) some [ectoderm](../../UBERON/24/UBERON_0000924.md)

## Equivalencies


## Other Logical Axioms


## Other Annotations


## Usage


## External Comments

