
## Class : ciliary ganglion

 * *IRI* = http://purl.obolibrary.org/obo/UBERON_0002058
 * *Label* = ciliary ganglion
 * *Definition* = The ciliary ganglion is a parasympathetic ganglion located in the posterior orbit. It measures 1P2 millimeters in diameter and contains approximately 2,500 neurons (adapted from Wikipedia) [[database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md) =  + NIF_GrossAnatomy:nlx_anat_100304]
 * *Comment* = This class was created automatically from a combination of ontologies

## Synonyms

 * ganglion ciliare [[database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md) =  + Wikipedia:Ciliary_ganglion[has_synonym_type](../../pe/oboInOwl#hasSynonymType.md) =  + http://purl.obolibrary.org/obo/uberon/core#LATIN]

## Cross-references

 * BAMS:GcIII
 * EFO:0002559
 * EHDAA2:0000251
 * EHDAA:5623
 * EMAPA:18222
 * FMA:6964
 * MA:0001136
 * NIF_GrossAnatomy:nlx_anat_100304
 * SCTID:279281007
 * VHOG:0000805
 * Wikipedia:Ciliary_ganglion
 * http://upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/3/30/Augennerven.jpg
 * http://upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/3/30/Augennerven.jpg/200px-Augennerven.jpg

## Subsets

 * http://purl.obolibrary.org/obo/uberon/core#efo_slim
 * http://purl.obolibrary.org/obo/uberon/core#uberon_slim

## Superclasses

 * [parasympathetic ganglion](../../UBERON/08/UBERON_0001808.md)

## Equivalencies


## Other Logical Axioms


## Other Annotations

 * *[external_definition](../../UBPROP/01/UBPROP_0000001.md)* = The ciliary ganglion is a parasympathetic ganglion located in the posterior orbit. It measures 1Ð2 millimeters in diameter and contains approximately 2,500 neurons. Preganglionic axons from the Edinger-Westphal nucleus form synapses with these cells. The postganglionic axons run in the short ciliary nerves and innervate two eye muscles: the sphincter pupillae constricts the pupil, known as Miosis. The opposite, Mydriasis, is the dilation of the pupil. the ciliaris muscle contracts, releasing tension on the Zonular Fibers, making the lens more convex, also known as accommodation. Both of these muscles are involuntary Ð they are controlled by the autonomic nervous system. It is one of four parasympathetic ganglia of the head and neck.. [WP,unvetted][Wikipedia:Ciliary_ganglion].
 * *[homology_notes](../../UBPROP/03/UBPROP_0000003.md)* = Little is known about the development of parasympathetic neurons apart from the ciliary ganglion in chicks. Although there are considerable gaps in our knowledge, some of the mechanisms controlling sympathetic and enteric neuron development appear to be conserved between mammals, avians and zebrafish.[uncertain][VHOG]
 * *[homologous_in](../../core#homologous/in/core#homologous_in.md)* = http://purl.obolibrary.org/obo/NCBITaxon_7742
 * *[has_obo_namespace](../../ce/oboInOwl#hasOBONamespace.md)* = uberon
 * *[oboInOwl#id](../../id/oboInOwl#id.md)* = UBERON:0002058

## External Comments

