
## Class : muscle of pelvic diaphragm

 * *IRI* = http://purl.obolibrary.org/obo/UBERON_0008612
 * *Label* = muscle of pelvic diaphragm
 * *Definition* = The pelvic floor or pelvic diaphragm is composed of muscle fibers of the levator ani, the coccygeus, and associated connective tissue which span the area underneath the pelvis. The pelvic diaphragm is a muscular partition formed by the levatores ani and coccygei, with which may be included the parietal pelvic fascia on their upper and lower aspects. The pelvic floor separates the pelvic cavity above from the perineal region below. The right and left levator ani lie almost horizontally in the floor of the pelvis, separated by a narrow gap that transmits the urethra, vagina, and anal canal. The levator ani is usually considered in three parts: pubococcygeus, puborectalis, and iliococcygeus. The pubococcygeus, the main part of the levator, runs backward from the body of the pubis toward the coccyx and may be damaged during parturition. Some fibers are inserted into the prostate, urethra, and vagina. The right and left puborectalis unite behind the anorectal junction to form a muscular sling . Some regard them as a part of the sphincter ani externus. The iliococcygeus, the most posterior part of the levator ani, is often poorly developed. The coccygeus, situated behind the levator ani and frequently tendinous as much as muscular, extends from the ischial spine to the lateral margin of the sacrum and coccyx. The pelvic cavity of the true pelvis has the pelvic floor as its inferior border (and the pelvic brim as its superior border. ) The perineum has the pelvic floor as its superior border. Some sources do not consider 'pelvic floor' and 'pelvic diaphragm' to be identical, with the 'diaphragm' consisting of only the levator ani and coccygeus, while the 'floor' also includes the perineal membrane and deep perineal pouch. However, other sources include the fascia as part of the diaphragm. In practice, the two terms are often used interchangeably. Inferiorly, the pelvic floor extends into the anal triangle. [[database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md) =  + Wikipedia:Pelvic_floor]

## Synonyms

 * muscle of pelvic floor [[database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md) =  + FMA:64856]
 * pelvic diaphragm muscle [[database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md) =  + FMA:64856]
 * diaphragm of the pelvis [[database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md) =  + Wikipedia:Pelvic_floor]
 * diaphragma pelvis [[database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md) =  + Wikipedia:Pelvic_floor[has_synonym_type](../../pe/oboInOwl#hasSynonymType.md) =  + http://purl.obolibrary.org/obo/uberon/core#LATIN]
 * pelvic diaphragm [[database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md) =  + Wikipedia:Pelvic_floor]
 * pelvic floor muscles [[database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md) =  + Wikipedia:Pelvic_floor]
 * pelvic muscles [[database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md) =  + Wikipedia:Pelvic_floor]

## Cross-references

 * FMA:64856
 * SCTID:367748001
 * UMLS:C0932441 [[oboInOwl#source](../../ce/oboInOwl#source.md) =  + ncithesaurus:Pelvic_Floor_Muscle]
 * Wikipedia:Pelvic_floor
 * http://upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/6/63/Gray404.png
 * ncithesaurus:Pelvic_Floor_Muscle

## Subsets


## Superclasses

 * [muscle of pelvis](../../UBERON/25/UBERON_0001325.md)

## Equivalencies


## Other Logical Axioms


## Other Annotations

 * *[has_obo_namespace](../../ce/oboInOwl#hasOBONamespace.md)* = uberon
 * *[oboInOwl#id](../../id/oboInOwl#id.md)* = UBERON:0008612

## External Comments

