
## Class : electrosensory lateral line lobe

 * *IRI* = http://purl.obolibrary.org/obo/UBERON_2002105
 * *Label* = electrosensory lateral line lobe
 * *Definition* = Anatomical structure located in the hindbrain that receives primary electroreceptor input. [ [database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md) = TAO:wd ]
 * *Comment* = Definition reference: McNamara, AM., JP Denizot, CD Hopkins. 2005. Comparative Anatomy of the Electrosensory Lateral Line Lobe of Mormyrids: The Mystery of the Missing Map in the Genus Stomatorhinus (Family: Mormyridae). Brain, Behavior and Evolution 65:188-201.

## Synonyms

 * ELL [ [database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md) = TAO:0002105 ]

## Cross-references


## Subsets


## Superclasses

 * [hindbrain nucleus](../../UBERON/62/UBERON_0009662.md)
 * [part_of](../../BFO/50/BFO_0000050.md) some [hindbrain](../../UBERON/28/UBERON_0002028.md)

## Equivalencies


## Other Logical Axioms


## Other Annotations

 * *[definition](../../IAO/15/IAO_0000115.md)* = Anatomical structure located in the hindbrain that receives primary electroreceptor input.
 * *[core#provenance_notes](../../core#provenance/es/core#provenance_notes.md)* = This class was sourced from an external ontology (teleost_anatomy). Its definitions, naming conventions and relationships may need to be checked for compatibility with uberon
 * *[oboInOwl#created_by](../../oboInOwl#created/by/oboInOwl#created_by.md)* = teleost_anatomy_curators
 * *[has_exact_synonym](../../ym/oboInOwl#hasExactSynonym.md)* = ELL
 * *[rdf-schema#comment](../../nt/rdf-schema#comment.md)* = Definition reference: McNamara, AM., JP Denizot, CD Hopkins. 2005. Comparative Anatomy of the Electrosensory Lateral Line Lobe of Mormyrids: The Mystery of the Missing Map in the Genus Stomatorhinus (Family: Mormyridae). Brain, Behavior and Evolution 65:188-201.
 * *[rdf-schema#label](../../el/rdf-schema#label.md)* = electrosensory lateral line lobe

## Usage

 * -
 * [electrosensory lateral line lobe](../../UBERON/05/UBERON_2002105.md) SubClassOf [hindbrain nucleus](../../UBERON/62/UBERON_0009662.md)
 * [electrosensory lateral line lobe](../../UBERON/05/UBERON_2002105.md) SubClassOf [part_of](../../BFO/50/BFO_0000050.md) some [hindbrain](../../UBERON/28/UBERON_0002028.md)

## External Comments

