
## Class : keratocyte

 * *IRI* = http://purl.obolibrary.org/obo/CL_0002363
 * *Label* = keratocyte
 * *Definition* = A keratocyte is a specialized fibroblast residing in the cornea stroma that has a flattened, dendritic cell located between the lamellae with a large flattened nucleus and lengthy processes which communicate with neighboring cells. This corneal layer, representing about 85-90% of corneal thickness, is built up from highly regular collagenous lamellae and extracellular matrix components. Keratocytes play the major role in keeping it transparent, healing its wounds, and synthesizing its components. This cell type secretes collagen I, V, VI, and keratin sulfate. [ [database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md) = GOC:tfm, [database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md) = ISBN:978-0-7020-2958-5 ]

## Synonyms

 * corneal fibroblast
 * corneal keratocyte

## Cross-references


## Subsets


## Superclasses

 * [fibroblast neural crest derived](../../CL/05/CL_0000005.md)
 * [part_of](../../BFO/50/BFO_0000050.md) some [substantia propria of cornea](../../UBERON/77/UBERON_0001777.md)
 * [develops_from](../../RO/02/RO_0002202.md) some [migratory cranial neural crest cell](../../CL/08/CL_0000008.md)

## Equivalencies


## Other Logical Axioms


## Other Annotations

 * *[definition](../../IAO/15/IAO_0000115.md)* = A keratocyte is a specialized fibroblast residing in the cornea stroma that has a flattened, dendritic cell located between the lamellae with a large flattened nucleus and lengthy processes which communicate with neighboring cells. This corneal layer, representing about 85-90% of corneal thickness, is built up from highly regular collagenous lamellae and extracellular matrix components. Keratocytes play the major role in keeping it transparent, healing its wounds, and synthesizing its components. This cell type secretes collagen I, V, VI, and keratin sulfate.
 * *[oboInOwl#created_by](../../oboInOwl#created/by/oboInOwl#created_by.md)* = tmeehan
 * *[oboInOwl#creation_date](../../oboInOwl#creation/te/oboInOwl#creation_date.md)* = 2010-09-22T01:57:40Z
 * *[has_exact_synonym](../../ym/oboInOwl#hasExactSynonym.md)* = corneal fibroblast
 * *[has_exact_synonym](../../ym/oboInOwl#hasExactSynonym.md)* = corneal keratocyte
 * *[rdf-schema#label](../../el/rdf-schema#label.md)* = keratocyte

## Usage

 * -
 * [keratocyte](../../CL/63/CL_0002363.md) SubClassOf [develops_from](../../RO/02/RO_0002202.md) some [migratory cranial neural crest cell](../../CL/08/CL_0000008.md)
 * [keratocyte](../../CL/63/CL_0002363.md) SubClassOf [fibroblast neural crest derived](../../CL/05/CL_0000005.md)
 * [keratocyte](../../CL/63/CL_0002363.md) SubClassOf [part_of](../../BFO/50/BFO_0000050.md) some [substantia propria of cornea](../../UBERON/77/UBERON_0001777.md)

## External Comments

