
## Class : pancreatic stellate cell

 * *IRI* = http://purl.obolibrary.org/obo/CL_0002410
 * *Label* = pancreatic stellate cell
 * *Definition* = A cell that is found in the periacinar space of the exocrine pancreas and in perivascular and periductal regions of the pancreas, and has long cytoplasmic processes that encircle the base of the acinus. Expresses several intermediate filament proteins including vimentin and nestin. Shares many of the characteristics of hepatatic stellate cells, but not stellate cells of the central nervous system. Upon activation, this cell type undergoes morphological and gene expression changes that make the cell suggestive of being a type of myofibroblast. [ [database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md) = GOC:mah, [database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md) = GOC:tfm, [database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md) = PMID:17200706 ]

## Synonyms

 * PaSC

## Cross-references


## Subsets


## Superclasses

 * [fibroblast](../../CL/57/CL_0000057.md)
 * [part_of](../../BFO/50/BFO_0000050.md) some [pancreas](../../UBERON/64/UBERON_0001264.md)

## Equivalencies


## Other Logical Axioms


## Other Annotations

 * *[definition](../../IAO/15/IAO_0000115.md)* = A cell that is found in the periacinar space of the exocrine pancreas and in perivascular and periductal regions of the pancreas, and has long cytoplasmic processes that encircle the base of the acinus. Expresses several intermediate filament proteins including vimentin and nestin. Shares many of the characteristics of hepatatic stellate cells, but not stellate cells of the central nervous system. Upon activation, this cell type undergoes morphological and gene expression changes that make the cell suggestive of being a type of myofibroblast.
 * *[oboInOwl#created_by](../../oboInOwl#created/by/oboInOwl#created_by.md)* = tmeehan
 * *[oboInOwl#creation_date](../../oboInOwl#creation/te/oboInOwl#creation_date.md)* = 2010-11-10T09:40:33Z
 * *[has_exact_synonym](../../ym/oboInOwl#hasExactSynonym.md)* = PaSC
 * *[rdf-schema#label](../../el/rdf-schema#label.md)* = pancreatic stellate cell

## Usage

 * -
 * [pancreatic stellate cell](../../CL/10/CL_0002410.md) SubClassOf [fibroblast](../../CL/57/CL_0000057.md)
 * [pancreatic stellate cell](../../CL/10/CL_0002410.md) SubClassOf [part_of](../../BFO/50/BFO_0000050.md) some [pancreas](../../UBERON/64/UBERON_0001264.md)

## External Comments

