
## Class : pars intermedia of adenohypophysis

 * *IRI* = http://purl.obolibrary.org/obo/UBERON_0002432
 * *Label* = pars intermedia of adenohypophysis
 * *Definition* = boundary between the anterior and posterior lobes of the pituitary. It contains three types of cells: basophils, chromophobes, and colloid-filled cysts. The cysts are the remainder of Rathke's pouch. In human fetal life, this area produces melanocyte stimulating hormone or MSH which causes the release of melanin pigment in skin melanocytes (pigment cells). However, the pars intermedia is normally either very small or entirely absent in adulthood. In lower vertebrates (fish, amphibians) MSH from the pars intermedia is responsible for darkening of the skin, often in response to changes in background color. This color change is due to MSH stimulating the dispersion of melanin pigment in dermal (skin) melanophore cells. [[database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md) =  + Wikipedia:Pars_intermedia]
 * *Comment* = The intermediate part of adenohypophysis: an ill-defined region between the two lobes of the hypophysis; some systems of nomenclature consider it part of the neurohypophysis. In humans a defined structure develops during embryogenesis, but only scattered cells are retained when the gland matures[BTO].

## Synonyms

 * intermediate lobe of adenohypophysis
 * intermediate lobe of pituitary
 * pars intermedia (glandula pituitaria) [[database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md) =  + FMA:74632[database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md) =  + FMA:TA[has_synonym_type](../../pe/oboInOwl#hasSynonymType.md) =  + http://purl.obolibrary.org/obo/uberon/core#LATIN]
 * pars intermedia [[database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md) =  + MA:0000855]
 * pars intermedia adenohypophysis [[database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md) =  + FMA:74632[database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md) =  + FMA:TA[has_synonym_type](../../pe/oboInOwl#hasSynonymType.md) =  + http://purl.obolibrary.org/obo/uberon/core#LATIN]
 * pars intermedia of anterior lobe of pituitary gland [[database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md) =  + FMA:74632]
 * intermediate lobe [[database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md) =  + BTO:0001788]
 * pars intermedia adenohypophyseos [[database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md) =  + BTO:0001788]
 * pars intermedia adenohypophyseos [[database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md) =  + Wikipedia:Pars_intermedia[has_synonym_type](../../pe/oboInOwl#hasSynonymType.md) =  + http://purl.obolibrary.org/obo/uberon/core#LATIN]
 * pars intermedia lobi anterior hypophyseos [[database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md) =  + BTO:0001788]

## Cross-references

 * BAMS:IPit
 * BTO:0001788
 * CALOHA:TS-0795
 * EHDAA2:0001417
 * EHDAA:8765
 * EMAPA:17516
 * FMA:74632
 * MA:0000855
 * NeuroNames:409
 * SCTID:245534008
 * TAO:0001197
 * VHOG:0001178
 * Wikipedia:Pars_intermedia
 * ZFA:0001197
 * http://upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/f/fb/Gray1181.png
 * http://upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/f/fb/Gray1181.png/200px-Gray1181.png

## Subsets

 * http://purl.obolibrary.org/obo/uberon/core#uberon_slim
 * http://purl.obolibrary.org/obo/uberon/core#vertebrate_core

## Superclasses

 * [organ part](../../UBERON/64/UBERON_0000064.md)
 * [ectoderm-derived structure](../../UBERON/21/UBERON_0004121.md)
 * [part_of](../../BFO/50/BFO_0000050.md) some [adenohypophysis](../../UBERON/96/UBERON_0002196.md)
 * [adjacent to](../../RO/20/RO_0002220.md) some [neurohypophysis](../../UBERON/98/UBERON_0002198.md)
 * [adjacent to](../../RO/20/RO_0002220.md) some [remnant of Rathke's pouch](../../UBERON/77/UBERON_0006377.md)

## Equivalencies


## Other Logical Axioms


## Other Annotations

 * *[homology_notes](../../UBPROP/03/UBPROP_0000003.md)* = It (the hypophysis) develops embryonically in all vertebrates from two ectodermal evaginations that meet and unite. An infundibulum grows ventrally from the diencephalon of the brain, and Rathke's pouch extends dorsally from the roof of the developing mouth, or stomodaeum. The infundibulum remains connected to the floor of the diencephalon, which becomes the hypothalamus, and gives rise to the part of the gland known as the neurohypophysis. (...) Rathke's pouch loses its connection with the stomodaeum in most adult vertebrates and gives rise to the rest of the gland, the adenohypophysis. (...) A well-developed hypophyseal system with functional connections to the hypothalamus is unique to craniates.[well established][VHOG]
 * *[homologous_in](../../core#homologous/in/core#homologous_in.md)* = http://purl.obolibrary.org/obo/NCBITaxon_7742
 * *[has_obo_namespace](../../ce/oboInOwl#hasOBONamespace.md)* = uberon
 * *[oboInOwl#id](../../id/oboInOwl#id.md)* = UBERON:0002432

## External Comments

