
## Class : odontogenic papilla

 * *IRI* = http://purl.obolibrary.org/obo/UBERON_0001763
 * *Label* = odontogenic papilla
 * *Definition* = Tissue of the developing tooth. It is composed of pre-odontoblast and undiffentiated mesnchyme cells and connects to the basal lamina[ZFA]. The dental papilla is a condensation of ectomesenchymal cells called odontoblasts, seen in histologic sections of a developing tooth. It lies below a cellular aggregation known as the enamel organ. The dental papilla appears after 8-10 weeks intra uteral life. The dental papilla gives rise to the dentin and pulp of a tooth. The enamel organ, dental papilla, and dental follicle together forms one unit, called the tooth germ. This is of importance because all the tissues of a tooth and its supporting structures form from these distinct cellular aggregations. [[database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md) =  + Wikipedia:Dental_papilla[database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md) =  + ZFA:0005140]

## Synonyms

 * odontogenic condensation [[database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md) =  + VSAO:0000025]
 * pharyngeal tooth mesenchyme [[database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md) =  + ZFA:0005140[has_synonym_type](../../pe/oboInOwl#hasSynonymType.md) =  + http://purl.obolibrary.org/obo/uberon/core#SENSU]
 * dental papilla [[database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md) =  + MA:0001598]
 * dentinal papilla [[database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md) =  + BTO:0001839]
 * dermal papilla [[database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md) =  + ISBN10:0073040584[has_synonym_type](../../pe/oboInOwl#hasSynonymType.md) =  + http://purl.obolibrary.org/obo/uberon/core#INCONSISTENT]
 * papilla dentis [[database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md) =  + Wikipedia:Dental_papilla[has_synonym_type](../../pe/oboInOwl#hasSynonymType.md) =  + http://purl.obolibrary.org/obo/uberon/core#LATIN]
 * tooth mesenchyme [[database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md) =  + ZFA:0005140]

## Cross-references

 * BTO:0001839
 * EMAPA:32892
 * FMA:57662
 * GAID:1277
 * MA:0001598
 * MESH:A14.254.900.720.250
 * TAO:0005140
 * VHOG:0001465
 * VSAO:0000025
 * Wikipedia:Dental_papilla
 * XAO:0004045
 * ZFA:0005140
 * http://upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/2/22/Gray1011.png
 * http://upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/2/22/Gray1011.png/200px-Gray1011.png

## Subsets

 * http://purl.obolibrary.org/obo/uberon/core#uberon_slim
 * http://purl.obolibrary.org/obo/uberon/core#vertebrate_core

## Superclasses

 * [odontogenic mesenchyme](../../UBERON/56/UBERON_0003856.md)
 * [developing mesenchymal condensation](../../UBERON/56/UBERON_0005856.md)
 * [part_of](../../BFO/50/BFO_0000050.md) some [tooth enamel organ](../../UBERON/76/UBERON_0005176.md)
 * [has_part](../../BFO/51/BFO_0000051.md) some [odontoblast](../../CL/60/CL_0000060.md)
 * [develops from](../../RO/02/RO_0002202.md) some [odontogenic mesenchyme](../../UBERON/56/UBERON_0003856.md)

## Equivalencies


## Other Logical Axioms


## Other Annotations

 * *[external_definition](../../UBPROP/01/UBPROP_0000001.md)* = Cell condensation that is a well-defined population of densely organized mesenchymal cells that aggregates adjacent to an epithelium.[VSAO]
 * *[external_definition](../../UBPROP/01/UBPROP_0000001.md)* = Tissue of the developing tooth. It is composed of pre-odontoblast and undiffentiated mesnchyme cells and connects to the basal lamina.[TAO]
 * *[homology_notes](../../UBPROP/03/UBPROP_0000003.md)* = Teeth and tooth-like structures, together named odontodes, are repeated organs thought to share a common evolutionary origin. These structures can be found in gnathostomes at different locations along the body: oral teeth in the jaws, teeth and denticles in the oral-pharyngeal cavity, and dermal denticles on elasmobranch skin.[uncertain][VHOG]
 * *[homologous_in](../../core#homologous/in/core#homologous_in.md)* = http://purl.obolibrary.org/obo/NCBITaxon_7742
 * *[has_obo_namespace](../../ce/oboInOwl#hasOBONamespace.md)* = uberon
 * *[oboInOwl#id](../../id/oboInOwl#id.md)* = UBERON:0001763

## External Comments

