
## Class : nuptial tubercle

 * *IRI* = http://purl.obolibrary.org/obo/UBERON_2002124
 * *Label* = nuptial tubercle
 * *Definition* = Surface structure that is a small protuberance on the surface of the body. Nuptial tubercles primarily function to facilitate contact between individuals for breeding. [ [database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md) = TAO:wd ]
 * *Comment* = Nuptial tubercles may be keratinized or nonkeratinized. Also may function in territorial defense or stimulation of females in breeding.

Definition reference: Wiley, M. L. and B. B. Collette. 1970. Breeding tubercles and contact organs in fishes: Their occurrence, structure, and significance. Bull Am Mus Nat Hist 143: 143-216.

## Synonyms

 * breeding tubercle [ [database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md) = TAO:0002124 ]
 * contact organ [ [database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md) = TAO:0002124 ]

## Cross-references


## Subsets


## Superclasses

 * [surface structure](../../UBERON/02/UBERON_0003102.md)

## Equivalencies


## Other Logical Axioms


## Other Annotations

 * *[definition](../../IAO/15/IAO_0000115.md)* = Surface structure that is a small protuberance on the surface of the body. Nuptial tubercles primarily function to facilitate contact between individuals for breeding.
 * *[core#provenance_notes](../../core#provenance/es/core#provenance_notes.md)* = This class was sourced from an external ontology (teleost_anatomy). Its definitions, naming conventions and relationships may need to be checked for compatibility with uberon
 * *[oboInOwl#created_by](../../oboInOwl#created/by/oboInOwl#created_by.md)* = teleost_anatomy_curators
 * *[has_exact_synonym](../../ym/oboInOwl#hasExactSynonym.md)* = breeding tubercle
 * *[has_exact_synonym](../../ym/oboInOwl#hasExactSynonym.md)* = contact organ
 * *[rdf-schema#comment](../../nt/rdf-schema#comment.md)* = Nuptial tubercles may be keratinized or nonkeratinized. Also may function in territorial defense or stimulation of females in breeding.

Definition reference: Wiley, M. L. and B. B. Collette. 1970. Breeding tubercles and contact organs in fishes: Their occurrence, structure, and significance. Bull Am Mus Nat Hist 143: 143-216.
 * *[rdf-schema#label](../../el/rdf-schema#label.md)* = nuptial tubercle

## Usage

 * -
 * [nuptial tubercle](../../UBERON/24/UBERON_2002124.md) SubClassOf [surface structure](../../UBERON/02/UBERON_0003102.md)

## External Comments

