
## Class : lesser sac

 * *IRI* = http://purl.obolibrary.org/obo/UBERON_0001341
 * *Label* = lesser sac
 * *Definition* = The lesser sac, also known as the omental bursa, is the cavity in the abdomen that is formed by the lesser and greater omentum. Usually found in mammals, it is connected with the greater sac via the epiploic foramen (also known as the Foramen of Winslow). In mammals, it is not uncommon for the lesser sac to contain considerable amounts of fat. In human anatomy, the wall of the stomach, pancreas and splenic artery are a part of the wall of the lesser sac. If these structures rupture they may leak into the lesser sac. For the stomach, which lies anterior to the omental bursa, the rupture must be on the posterior side; if it were anteriorly located, the leak would collect in the greater sac. The lesser sac is embryologically formed from an infolding of the greater omentum. The open end of the infolding, known as the epiploic foramen, is usually proximal to the stomach. [WP,unvetted]. [ [database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md) = http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Lesser_sac ]

## Synonyms

 * bursa omentalis [ [database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md) = FMA:19800, [database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md) = FMA:TA, [has_synonym_type](../../pe/oboInOwl#hasSynonymType.md) = http://purl.obolibrary.org/obo/uberon/core#LATIN ]
 * omental bursa

## Cross-references

 * EHDAA2:0001296
 * EHDAA2:0004554
 * EHDAA:2335
 * EMAPA:16889
 * FMA:19800
 * MA:0000445
 * UMLS:C0230212 [ [oboInOwl#source](../../ce/oboInOwl#source.md) = ncithesaurus:Omental_Bursa ]
 * VHOG:0000458
 * http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Lesser_sac
 * http://linkedlifedata.com/resource/umls/id/C0230212
 * http://ncicb.nci.nih.gov/xml/owl/EVS/Omental_Bursa

## Subsets

 * http://purl.obolibrary.org/obo/uberon/core#uberon_slim

## Superclasses

 * [body cavity or lining](../../UBERON/58/UBERON_0004458.md)
 * [part_of](../../BFO/50/BFO_0000050.md) some [peritoneum](../../UBERON/58/UBERON_0002358.md)
 * [located_in](../../RO/25/RO_0001025.md) some [peritoneal cavity](../../UBERON/79/UBERON_0001179.md)

## Equivalencies


## Other Logical Axioms


## Other Annotations

 * *[definition](../../IAO/15/IAO_0000115.md)* = The lesser sac, also known as the omental bursa, is the cavity in the abdomen that is formed by the lesser and greater omentum. Usually found in mammals, it is connected with the greater sac via the epiploic foramen (also known as the Foramen of Winslow). In mammals, it is not uncommon for the lesser sac to contain considerable amounts of fat. In human anatomy, the wall of the stomach, pancreas and splenic artery are a part of the wall of the lesser sac. If these structures rupture they may leak into the lesser sac. For the stomach, which lies anterior to the omental bursa, the rupture must be on the posterior side; if it were anteriorly located, the leak would collect in the greater sac. The lesser sac is embryologically formed from an infolding of the greater omentum. The open end of the infolding, known as the epiploic foramen, is usually proximal to the stomach. [WP,unvetted].
 * *[external_definition](../../UBPROP/01/UBPROP_0000001.md)* = The lesser sac of the peritoneum. Part of the peritoneal cavity behind the liver, lesser omentum and stomach. It lies across the transverse mesocolon and extends into the greater omentum. [Dorian_AF, Elsevier's_encyclopaedic_dictionary_of_medicine, Part_B:_Anatomy_(1988)_Amsterdam_etc.:_Elsevier][VHOG]
 * *[external_ontology_notes](../../UBPROP/12/UBPROP_0000012.md)* = classified as a cavity in EHDAA2, so this truly corresponds to FMA 'Cavity of lesser sac' - we hedge for now; todo - treat same as greater sac
 * *[database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md)* = EHDAA2:0001296
 * *[database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md)* = EHDAA2:0004554
 * *[database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md)* = EHDAA:2335
 * *[database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md)* = EMAPA:16889
 * *[database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md)* = FMA:19800
 * *[database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md)* = MA:0000445
 * *[database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md)* = UMLS:C0230212
 * *[database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md)* = VHOG:0000458
 * *[database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md)* = http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Lesser_sac
 * *[database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md)* = http://linkedlifedata.com/resource/umls/id/C0230212
 * *[database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md)* = http://ncicb.nci.nih.gov/xml/owl/EVS/Omental_Bursa
 * *[has_exact_synonym](../../ym/oboInOwl#hasExactSynonym.md)* = bursa omentalis
 * *[has_exact_synonym](../../ym/oboInOwl#hasExactSynonym.md)* = omental bursa
 * *[in_subset](../../et/oboInOwl#inSubset.md)* = http://purl.obolibrary.org/obo/uberon/core#uberon_slim
 * *[rdf-schema#label](../../el/rdf-schema#label.md)* = lesser sac
 * *[depicted_by](../../depicted/by/depicted_by.md)* = http://upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/c/c5/Peritoneum.svg

## Usage

 * -
 * [inferior recess of lesser sac](../../UBERON/81/UBERON_0001181.md) SubClassOf [part_of](../../BFO/50/BFO_0000050.md) some [lesser sac](../../UBERON/41/UBERON_0001341.md)
 * [lesser sac cavity](../../UBERON/52/UBERON_0005252.md) == [anatomical cavity](../../UBERON/53/UBERON_0002553.md) and [luminal space of](../../RO/72/RO_0002572.md) some [lesser sac](../../UBERON/41/UBERON_0001341.md)
 * [lesser sac cavity](../../UBERON/52/UBERON_0005252.md) SubClassOf [luminal space of](../../RO/72/RO_0002572.md) some [lesser sac](../../UBERON/41/UBERON_0001341.md)
 * [lesser sac](../../UBERON/41/UBERON_0001341.md) SubClassOf [body cavity or lining](../../UBERON/58/UBERON_0004458.md)
 * [lesser sac](../../UBERON/41/UBERON_0001341.md) SubClassOf [located_in](../../RO/25/RO_0001025.md) some [peritoneal cavity](../../UBERON/79/UBERON_0001179.md)
 * [lesser sac](../../UBERON/41/UBERON_0001341.md) SubClassOf [part_of](../../BFO/50/BFO_0000050.md) some [peritoneum](../../UBERON/58/UBERON_0002358.md)
 * [mesothelium of omental bursa](../../UBERON/74/UBERON_0003274.md) == [mesothelium](../../UBERON/36/UBERON_0001136.md) and [part_of](../../BFO/50/BFO_0000050.md) some [lesser sac](../../UBERON/41/UBERON_0001341.md)
 * [mesothelium of omental bursa](../../UBERON/74/UBERON_0003274.md) SubClassOf [part_of](../../BFO/50/BFO_0000050.md) some [lesser sac](../../UBERON/41/UBERON_0001341.md)
 * [superior recess of lesser sac](../../UBERON/80/UBERON_0001180.md) SubClassOf [part_of](../../BFO/50/BFO_0000050.md) some [lesser sac](../../UBERON/41/UBERON_0001341.md)

## External Comments

