
## Class : cell in vitro

 * *IRI* = http://purl.obolibrary.org/obo/CL_0001034
 * *Label* = cell in vitro
 * *Definition* = A cell that is maintained or propagated in a controlled artificial environment for use in an investigation. [ [database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md) = ReO:mhb ]
 * *Comment* = 'In vitro', translating literally to 'in glass', typically refers to a controlled, often sterile, laboratory setting where cells or other specimens are placed by some agent for the purpose of studying or manipulating them as part of some research investigation. 'In vitro' is intended to contrast with 'native',which refers to cells or other biological entities that are found in a natural setting. It describes unicellular organisms removed from a natural environement and multicellular organism cells removed from an organism, or cells derived in culture from such displaced cells.

## Synonyms


## Cross-references


## Subsets


## Superclasses

 * [cell](../../CL/00/CL_0000000.md)
 * [cell](../../GO/23/GO_0005623.md)

## Equivalencies


## Other Logical Axioms


## Other Annotations

 * *[definition](../../IAO/15/IAO_0000115.md)* = A cell that is maintained or propagated in a controlled artificial environment for use in an investigation.
 * *[oboInOwl#created_by](../../oboInOwl#created/by/oboInOwl#created_by.md)* = haendel
 * *[oboInOwl#creation_date](../../oboInOwl#creation/te/oboInOwl#creation_date.md)* = 2012-01-12T09:58:38Z
 * *[rdf-schema#comment](../../nt/rdf-schema#comment.md)* = 'In vitro', translating literally to 'in glass', typically refers to a controlled, often sterile, laboratory setting where cells or other specimens are placed by some agent for the purpose of studying or manipulating them as part of some research investigation. 'In vitro' is intended to contrast with 'native',which refers to cells or other biological entities that are found in a natural setting. It describes unicellular organisms removed from a natural environement and multicellular organism cells removed from an organism, or cells derived in culture from such displaced cells.
 * *[rdf-schema#label](../../el/rdf-schema#label.md)* = cell in vitro

## Usage

 * -
 * [cell in vitro](../../CL/34/CL_0001034.md) SubClassOf [cell](../../CL/00/CL_0000000.md)
 * [cell in vitro](../../CL/34/CL_0001034.md) SubClassOf [cell](../../GO/23/GO_0005623.md)
 * [experimentally modified cell in vitro](../../CL/78/CL_0000578.md) SubClassOf [cell in vitro](../../CL/34/CL_0001034.md)

## External Comments

