
## Class : stratum intermedium of tooth

 * *IRI* = http://purl.obolibrary.org/obo/UBERON_0007440
 * *Label* = stratum intermedium of tooth
 * *Definition* = The stratum intermedium in a developing tooth is a layer of two or three cells between the inner enamel epithelium and the newly forming cells of the stellate reticulum. It first appears during the early bell stage of tooth development, at around the 14th week of intrauterine life (in humans). The stratum intermedium has a notably high alkaline phosphatase activity. This layer, along with the inner enamel epithelium, is responsible for the tooth enamel formation. It is a part of the dental (enamel) organ. [ [database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md) = http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Stratum_intermedium ]

## Synonyms

 * stratum intermedium [ [database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md) = BTO:0005009 ]

## Cross-references

 * BTO:0005009
 * UMLS:C1514987 [ [oboInOwl#source](../../ce/oboInOwl#source.md) = ncithesaurus:Stratum_Intermedium ]
 * http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Stratum_intermedium
 * http://linkedlifedata.com/resource/umls/id/C1514987
 * http://ncicb.nci.nih.gov/xml/owl/EVS/Stratum_Intermedium

## Subsets


## Superclasses

 * [cell layer](../../UBERON/19/UBERON_0000119.md)
 * [ectoderm-derived structure](../../UBERON/21/UBERON_0004121.md)
 * [structure with developmental contribution from neural crest](../../UBERON/14/UBERON_0010314.md)
 * [part_of](../../BFO/50/BFO_0000050.md) some [tooth enamel organ](../../UBERON/76/UBERON_0005176.md)

## Equivalencies


## Other Logical Axioms


## Other Annotations

 * *[definition](../../IAO/15/IAO_0000115.md)* = The stratum intermedium in a developing tooth is a layer of two or three cells between the inner enamel epithelium and the newly forming cells of the stellate reticulum. It first appears during the early bell stage of tooth development, at around the 14th week of intrauterine life (in humans). The stratum intermedium has a notably high alkaline phosphatase activity. This layer, along with the inner enamel epithelium, is responsible for the tooth enamel formation. It is a part of the dental (enamel) organ.
 * *[has_broad_synonym](../../ym/oboInOwl#hasBroadSynonym.md)* = stratum intermedium
 * *[database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md)* = BTO:0005009
 * *[database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md)* = UMLS:C1514987
 * *[database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md)* = http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Stratum_intermedium
 * *[database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md)* = http://linkedlifedata.com/resource/umls/id/C1514987
 * *[database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md)* = http://ncicb.nci.nih.gov/xml/owl/EVS/Stratum_Intermedium
 * *[rdf-schema#label](../../el/rdf-schema#label.md)* = stratum intermedium of tooth

## Usage

 * -
 * [stratum intermedium of tooth](../../UBERON/40/UBERON_0007440.md) SubClassOf [cell layer](../../UBERON/19/UBERON_0000119.md)
 * [stratum intermedium of tooth](../../UBERON/40/UBERON_0007440.md) SubClassOf [ectoderm-derived structure](../../UBERON/21/UBERON_0004121.md)
 * [stratum intermedium of tooth](../../UBERON/40/UBERON_0007440.md) SubClassOf [part_of](../../BFO/50/BFO_0000050.md) some [tooth enamel organ](../../UBERON/76/UBERON_0005176.md)
 * [stratum intermedium of tooth](../../UBERON/40/UBERON_0007440.md) SubClassOf [structure with developmental contribution from neural crest](../../UBERON/14/UBERON_0010314.md)

## External Comments

