
## Class : crus of clitoris

 * *IRI* = http://purl.obolibrary.org/obo/UBERON_0006640
 * *Label* = crus of clitoris
 * *Definition* = The clitoral crura are an internal portion of the clitoris. A single one is called a clitoral crus. They are shaped like an inverted 'V' with the vertex of the 'V' connecting to the clitoral body. They are near the vestibular bulbs, also known as the clitoral bulbs. They are to the left and right of the urethra, urethral sponge, and vagina and extend back toward the pubic bone. The clitoral crura contain muscles called the ischiocavernosi. 'Crus' basically translates as 'leg', thus 'crura' as 'legs'. Each clitoral crus connects to the rami of the pubis and the ischium. The crura, like the rest of the clitoris, are composed of two corpus cavernosa muscles, which are made up of erectile tissue. [ [database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md) = Wikipedia:Crus_of_clitoris ]

## Synonyms

 * Clitoris crus [ [database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md) = FMA:20175 ]
 * crura of clitoris [ [database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md) = Wikipedia:Clitoral_crura ]
 * crus clitoridis [ [database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md) = Wikipedia:Clitoral_crura ]
 * crus of clitoris [ [database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md) = Wikipedia:Clitoral_crura ]

## Cross-references

 * EMAPA:19169
 * EMAPA:30821
 * FMA:20175
 * SCTID:279860002
 * Wikipedia:Crus_of_clitoris
 * http://upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/8/8c/Clitoris_inner_anatomy.gif

## Subsets


## Superclasses

 * [organ part](../../UBERON/64/UBERON_0000064.md)
 * [reproductive structure](../../UBERON/56/UBERON_0005156.md)
 * [female anatomical structure](../../UBERON/04/UBERON_0014404.md)
 * [part_of](../../BFO/50/BFO_0000050.md) some [corpus cavernosum clitoridis](../../UBERON/08/UBERON_0006608.md)

## Equivalencies


## Other Logical Axioms


## Other Annotations


## Usage


## External Comments

