
## Class : basal fulcrum

 * *IRI* = http://purl.obolibrary.org/obo/UBERON_2002082
 * *Label* = basal fulcrum
 * *Definition* = Fulcrum that is large, laterally expanded, paired or unpaired, scale-like, and that precedes the base of a fin. Arratia, G. 2009. Identifying patterns of diversity of the actinopterygian fulcra. Acta Zoologica (Stockholm) 90 (Suppl. 1): 220-235 [ [database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md) = PSPUB:0000171, [database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md) = TAO:GA_TG ]
 * *Comment* = Basal fulcra may precede the median fins or both of the paired and median fins. Basal fulcra may be lanceolate, leaf-like or arrow-like in shape. The series of basal fulcra may be formed by unpaired plus paired elements depending on the fish group. Most teleosts lack basal fulcra. For additional information on basal fulcra see Arratia (2008, 2009).

## Synonyms

 * basal fulcra [ [database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md) = TAO:0002082, [has_synonym_type](../../pe/oboInOwl#hasSynonymType.md) = http://purl.obolibrary.org/obo/core#PLURAL ]

## Cross-references


## Subsets


## Superclasses

 * [fulcrum](../../UBERON/91/UBERON_2002291.md)

## Equivalencies


## Other Logical Axioms


## Other Annotations

 * *[definition](../../IAO/15/IAO_0000115.md)* = Fulcrum that is large, laterally expanded, paired or unpaired, scale-like, and that precedes the base of a fin. Arratia, G. 2009. Identifying patterns of diversity of the actinopterygian fulcra. Acta Zoologica (Stockholm) 90 (Suppl. 1): 220-235
 * *[core#provenance_notes](../../core#provenance/es/core#provenance_notes.md)* = This class was sourced from an external ontology (teleost_anatomy). Its definitions, naming conventions and relationships may need to be checked for compatibility with uberon
 * *[oboInOwl#created_by](../../oboInOwl#created/by/oboInOwl#created_by.md)* = teleost_anatomy_curators
 * *[has_exact_synonym](../../ym/oboInOwl#hasExactSynonym.md)* = basal fulcra
 * *[rdf-schema#comment](../../nt/rdf-schema#comment.md)* = Basal fulcra may precede the median fins or both of the paired and median fins. Basal fulcra may be lanceolate, leaf-like or arrow-like in shape. The series of basal fulcra may be formed by unpaired plus paired elements depending on the fish group. Most teleosts lack basal fulcra. For additional information on basal fulcra see Arratia (2008, 2009).
 * *[rdf-schema#label](../../el/rdf-schema#label.md)* = basal fulcrum

## Usage

 * -
 * [basal fulcrum](../../UBERON/82/UBERON_2002082.md) SubClassOf [fulcrum](../../UBERON/91/UBERON_2002291.md)
 * [caudal basal fulcrum](../../UBERON/59/UBERON_2002159.md) SubClassOf [basal fulcrum](../../UBERON/82/UBERON_2002082.md)
 * [epaxial basal fulcrum](../../UBERON/92/UBERON_2002292.md) SubClassOf [basal fulcrum](../../UBERON/82/UBERON_2002082.md)
 * [hypaxial basal fulcrum](../../UBERON/93/UBERON_2002293.md) SubClassOf [basal fulcrum](../../UBERON/82/UBERON_2002082.md)

## External Comments

