
## Class : lymphocyte of B lineage

 * *IRI* = http://purl.obolibrary.org/obo/CL_0000945
 * *Label* = lymphocyte of B lineage
 * *Definition* = A lymphocyte of B lineage is a lymphocyte that expresses CD19 on the cell surface. An additional defining characteristic is the commitment to express an immunoglobulin complex. [ [database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md) = GOC:add, [database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md) = GOC:rhs, [database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md) = GOC:tfm, [database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md) = GO_REF:0000031, [database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md) = ISBN:0781735149 ]
 * *Comment* = Types of B lineage lymphocytes include B cells and antibody secreting cells (plasmablasts and plasma cells).  Lymphocytes of B cell lineage can be distinguished from those of T cell lineage by their lack of CD3e (as part of the T cell receptor complex).

## Synonyms


## Cross-references


## Subsets


## Superclasses

 * [lymphocyte](../../CL/42/CL_0000542.md)
 * [develops_from](../../RO/02/RO_0002202.md) some [pro-B cell](../../CL/26/CL_0000826.md)

## Equivalencies


## Other Logical Axioms


## Other Annotations

 * *[definition](../../IAO/15/IAO_0000115.md)* = A lymphocyte of B lineage is a lymphocyte that expresses CD19 on the cell surface. An additional defining characteristic is the commitment to express an immunoglobulin complex.
 * *[rdf-schema#comment](../../nt/rdf-schema#comment.md)* = Types of B lineage lymphocytes include B cells and antibody secreting cells (plasmablasts and plasma cells).  Lymphocytes of B cell lineage can be distinguished from those of T cell lineage by their lack of CD3e (as part of the T cell receptor complex).
 * *[rdf-schema#label](../../el/rdf-schema#label.md)* = lymphocyte of B lineage

## Usage

 * -
 * [B cell](../../CL/36/CL_0000236.md) SubClassOf [lymphocyte of B lineage](../../CL/45/CL_0000945.md)
 * [antibody secreting cell](../../CL/46/CL_0000946.md) SubClassOf [lymphocyte of B lineage](../../CL/45/CL_0000945.md)
 * [lymphocyte of B lineage](../../CL/45/CL_0000945.md) SubClassOf [develops_from](../../RO/02/RO_0002202.md) some [pro-B cell](../../CL/26/CL_0000826.md)
 * [lymphocyte of B lineage](../../CL/45/CL_0000945.md) SubClassOf [lymphocyte](../../CL/42/CL_0000542.md)

## External Comments

