
## Class : pituicyte

 * *IRI* = http://purl.obolibrary.org/obo/CL_0000645
 * *Label* = pituicyte
 * *Definition* = A cell with long processes running parallel to adjacent axons in the proximal infundibulum of the neurohypophysis. These processes form a three-dimensional network among the axons of the hypothalamic neurosecretory cells and are connected by gap junctions which provide for their metabolic coupling. This cell type constitutes most of the nonexcitable tissue in the neurohypophsis; function may include possibly acting as an intermediate in the modulation of oxytocin and vasopressin release. This cell type is highly variable in size and shape and commonly contain lipid droplets and deposits of lipochrome pigment. [ [database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md) = ISBN:0412046911, [database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md) = ISBN:0517223651, [database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md) = http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Pituicyte ]

## Synonyms


## Cross-references

 * BTO:0003793
 * FMA:83503

## Subsets


## Superclasses

 * [astrocyte](../../CL/27/CL_0000127.md)

## Equivalencies


## Other Logical Axioms


## Other Annotations

 * *[definition](../../IAO/15/IAO_0000115.md)* = A cell with long processes running parallel to adjacent axons in the proximal infundibulum of the neurohypophysis. These processes form a three-dimensional network among the axons of the hypothalamic neurosecretory cells and are connected by gap junctions which provide for their metabolic coupling. This cell type constitutes most of the nonexcitable tissue in the neurohypophsis; function may include possibly acting as an intermediate in the modulation of oxytocin and vasopressin release. This cell type is highly variable in size and shape and commonly contain lipid droplets and deposits of lipochrome pigment.
 * *[database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md)* = BTO:0003793
 * *[database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md)* = FMA:83503
 * *[rdf-schema#label](../../el/rdf-schema#label.md)* = pituicyte

## Usage

 * -
 * [pituicyte](../../CL/45/CL_0000645.md) SubClassOf [astrocyte](../../CL/27/CL_0000127.md)

## External Comments

