
## Class : regulatory B cell

 * *IRI* = http://purl.obolibrary.org/obo/CL_0000969
 * *Label* = regulatory B cell
 * *Definition* = A mature B cell that has the phenotype CD1d-positive and expresses interleukin-10. This cell type has been associated with suppression of chronic inflammatory responses and T cell responses. [ [database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md) = GOC:dsd, [database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md) = GOC:msz, [database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md) = GOC:tfm, [database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md) = GO_REF:0000031, [database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md) = MESH:D060151, [database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md) = PMID:11869683, [database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md) = PMID:18482568, [database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md) = PMID:20224569, [database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md) = PMID:20809522 ]
 * *Comment* = Regulatory B cells reportedly represent 1-2% of the spleen and 7-8% of the peritoneal B220-positive cells in mice. They are also found in the bone marrow, lymph node, and blood of mice. These cells are also reportedly capable of secreting IL-10 and are reportedly CD5-positive, CD21-positive, CD24-positive, CD93-negative, B220-positive, IgM-positive, and IgD-positive.

## Synonyms

 * B(reg)
 * B10 cell
 * Breg
 * regulatory B lymphocyte
 * regulatory B-cell
 * regulatory B-lymphocyte

## Cross-references


## Subsets


## Superclasses

 * [mature B cell](../../CL/85/CL_0000785.md)
 * [capable_of](../../RO/15/RO_0002215.md) some [GO_0032613](../../GO/13/GO_0032613.md)
 * [capable_of](../../RO/15/RO_0002215.md) some [negative regulation of immune response](../../GO/77/GO_0050777.md)

## Equivalencies


## Other Logical Axioms


## Other Annotations

 * *[definition](../../IAO/15/IAO_0000115.md)* = A mature B cell that has the phenotype CD1d-positive and expresses interleukin-10. This cell type has been associated with suppression of chronic inflammatory responses and T cell responses.
 * *[has_exact_synonym](../../ym/oboInOwl#hasExactSynonym.md)* = B(reg)
 * *[has_exact_synonym](../../ym/oboInOwl#hasExactSynonym.md)* = B10 cell
 * *[has_exact_synonym](../../ym/oboInOwl#hasExactSynonym.md)* = Breg
 * *[has_exact_synonym](../../ym/oboInOwl#hasExactSynonym.md)* = regulatory B lymphocyte
 * *[has_exact_synonym](../../ym/oboInOwl#hasExactSynonym.md)* = regulatory B-cell
 * *[has_exact_synonym](../../ym/oboInOwl#hasExactSynonym.md)* = regulatory B-lymphocyte
 * *[rdf-schema#comment](../../nt/rdf-schema#comment.md)* = Regulatory B cells reportedly represent 1-2% of the spleen and 7-8% of the peritoneal B220-positive cells in mice. They are also found in the bone marrow, lymph node, and blood of mice. These cells are also reportedly capable of secreting IL-10 and are reportedly CD5-positive, CD21-positive, CD24-positive, CD93-negative, B220-positive, IgM-positive, and IgD-positive.
 * *[rdf-schema#label](../../el/rdf-schema#label.md)* = regulatory B cell

## Usage

 * -
 * [regulatory B cell](../../CL/69/CL_0000969.md) SubClassOf [capable_of](../../RO/15/RO_0002215.md) some [GO_0032613](../../GO/13/GO_0032613.md)
 * [regulatory B cell](../../CL/69/CL_0000969.md) SubClassOf [capable_of](../../RO/15/RO_0002215.md) some [negative regulation of immune response](../../GO/77/GO_0050777.md)
 * [regulatory B cell](../../CL/69/CL_0000969.md) SubClassOf [mature B cell](../../CL/85/CL_0000785.md)

## External Comments

