
## Class : ganglion

 * *IRI* = http://purl.obolibrary.org/obo/UBERON_0000045
 * *Label* = ganglion
 * *Definition* = A biological tissue mass, most commonly a mass of nerve cell bodies. [[database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md) =  + Wikipedia:Ganglion[database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md) =  + http://purl.obolibrary.org/obo/uberon/tracker/300]
 * *Comment* = TODO - check vert vs invert. Other species: Any of a number of aggregations of neurons, glial cells and their processes, surrounded by a glial cell and connective tissue sheath (plural: ganglia). // Subdivision of neural tree (organ) which primarily consists of cell bodies of neurons located outside the neuraxis (brain and spinal cord); together with a nucleus and its associated nerve, it constitutes a neural tree (organ). Examples: spinal ganglion, trigeminal ganglion, superior cervical ganglion, celiac ganglion, inferior hypogastric (pelvic) ganglion. // a cluster of nerve cells and associated glial cells (nuclear location) // Portion of tissue that contains cell bodies of neurons and is located outside the central nervous system. // Structures containing a collection of nerve cell bodies. (Source: BioGlossary, www.Biology-Text.com).

## Synonyms

 * ganglia
 * neural ganglion [[database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md) =  + BTO:0000497]

## Cross-references

 * AAO:0010426
 * AEO:0000135
 * BAMS:G
 * BTO:0000497
 * CALOHA:TS-0397
 * EFO:0000899
 * EHDAA2:0003135
 * EHDAA:2897
 * EHDAA:4662
 * EHDAA:5621
 * EHDAA:918
 * EMAPA:32846
 * EV:0100372
 * FBbt:00005137
 * FMA:5884
 * MA:0002406
 * MAT:0000207
 * MAT:0000343
 * MESH:A08.340
 * MIAA:0000207
 * MIAA:0000343
 * NIF_GrossAnatomy:nlx_anat_100302
 * TAO:0000190
 * TGMA:0001016
 * UMLS:C0017067 [[oboInOwl#source](../../ce/oboInOwl#source.md) =  + ncithesaurus:Ganglion]
 * VHOG:0000156
 * WBbt:0005189
 * Wikipedia:Ganglion
 * XAO:0000209
 * ZFA:0000190
 * ncithesaurus:Ganglion

## Subsets

 * http://purl.obolibrary.org/obo/uberon/core#efo_slim
 * http://purl.obolibrary.org/obo/uberon/core#uberon_slim
 * http://purl.obolibrary.org/obo/uberon/core#vertebrate_core

## Superclasses

 * [neural tissue](../../UBERON/14/UBERON_0003714.md)
 * [part_of](../../BFO/50/BFO_0000050.md) some [nervous system](../../UBERON/16/UBERON_0001016.md)
 * [develops from](../../RO/02/RO_0002202.md) some [presumptive ganglion](../../UBERON/69/UBERON_0003869.md)

## Equivalencies


## Other Logical Axioms


## Other Annotations

 * *[external_definition](../../UBPROP/01/UBPROP_0000001.md)* = Portion of tissue that contains cell bodies of neurons and is located outside the central nervous system.[AAO]
 * *[external_definition](../../UBPROP/01/UBPROP_0000001.md)* = Structures containing a collection of nerve cell bodies. (Source: BioGlossary, www.Biology-Text.com)[TAO]
 * *[external_definition](../../UBPROP/01/UBPROP_0000001.md)* = Subdivision of nervous system which primarily consists of cell bodies of neurons located outside the neuraxis (brain and spinal cord. Examples: spinal ganglion, trigeminal ganglion, superior cervical ganglion, celiac ganglion, inferior hypogastric (pelvic) ganglion (adapted from Foundational Model of Anatomy)[NIF_GrossAnatomy:nlx_anat_100302].
 * *[homology_notes](../../UBPROP/03/UBPROP_0000003.md)* = Cranial sensory placodes are focused areas of the head ectoderm of vertebrates that contribute to the development of the cranial sense organs and their associated ganglia. Placodes have long been considered a key character of vertebrates, and their evolution is proposed to have been essential for the evolution of an active predatory lifestyle by early vertebrates.[well established][VHOG]
 * *[has_relational_adjective](../../UBPROP/07/UBPROP_0000007.md)* = ganglionic
 * *[homologous_in](../../core#homologous/in/core#homologous_in.md)* = http://purl.obolibrary.org/obo/NCBITaxon_7742
 * *[has_obo_namespace](../../ce/oboInOwl#hasOBONamespace.md)* = uberon
 * *[oboInOwl#id](../../id/oboInOwl#id.md)* = UBERON:0000045

## External Comments

