
## Class : pennate muscle

 * *IRI* = http://purl.obolibrary.org/obo/UBERON_0008245
 * *Label* = pennate muscle
 * *Definition* = A pennate muscle (also called a penniform muscle) is a muscle with fascicles that attach obliquely (in a slanting position) to its tendon. These types of muscles generally allow better stabilization and force production but less flexibility. Individual muscle fibers are formed into bundles of fasciculi and these bundles of fasciculi are formed into bundles of fascicles which compose the entire muscle itself. In a pennate muscle, the fascicles will form an angle with its central tendon. If all the fascicles are on the same side of the tendon, the pennate muscle is called unipennate. Examples of this include certain muscles in the manus. If there are fascicles on both sides of the central tendon, the pennate muscle is called bipennate. The rectus femoris, a large muscle in the quadriceps, is typical. If the central tendon branches within a pennate muscle, the muscle is called multipennate, as seen in the deltoid muscle in the shoulder. [ [database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md) = http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Pennate_muscle ]

## Synonyms

 * penniform muscle [ [database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md) = http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Pennate_muscle ]

## Cross-references

 * FMA:74993
 * http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Pennate_muscle

## Subsets


## Superclasses

 * [muscle organ](../../UBERON/30/UBERON_0001630.md)

## Equivalencies


## Other Logical Axioms


## Other Annotations

 * *[definition](../../IAO/15/IAO_0000115.md)* = A pennate muscle (also called a penniform muscle) is a muscle with fascicles that attach obliquely (in a slanting position) to its tendon. These types of muscles generally allow better stabilization and force production but less flexibility. Individual muscle fibers are formed into bundles of fasciculi and these bundles of fasciculi are formed into bundles of fascicles which compose the entire muscle itself. In a pennate muscle, the fascicles will form an angle with its central tendon. If all the fascicles are on the same side of the tendon, the pennate muscle is called unipennate. Examples of this include certain muscles in the manus. If there are fascicles on both sides of the central tendon, the pennate muscle is called bipennate. The rectus femoris, a large muscle in the quadriceps, is typical. If the central tendon branches within a pennate muscle, the muscle is called multipennate, as seen in the deltoid muscle in the shoulder.
 * *[external_ontology_notes](../../UBPROP/12/UBPROP_0000012.md)* = the FMA class does not denote a muscle organ. editor note: TODO add child classes
 * *[database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md)* = FMA:74993
 * *[database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md)* = http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Pennate_muscle
 * *[has_related_synonym](../../ym/oboInOwl#hasRelatedSynonym.md)* = penniform muscle
 * *[rdf-schema#label](../../el/rdf-schema#label.md)* = pennate muscle
 * *[depicted_by](../../depicted/by/depicted_by.md)* = http://upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/1/14/Rectus_femoris.png

## Usage

 * -
 * [pennate muscle](../../UBERON/45/UBERON_0008245.md) SubClassOf [muscle organ](../../UBERON/30/UBERON_0001630.md)

## External Comments

