
## Class : APUD cell

 * *IRI* = http://purl.obolibrary.org/obo/CL_0000568
 * *Label* = APUD cell
 * *Definition* = A cell that originates in the neural crest, that has certain cytochemical and ultrastructural characteristics and is found scattered throughout the body; types include melanocytes, the cells of the chromaffin system, and cells in the hypothalamus, hypophysis, thyroid, parathyroids, lungs, gastrointestinal tract, and pancreas. This cell type concentrates the amino acid precursors of certain amines and decarboxylate them, forming amines that function as regulators and neurotransmitters. This cell type produces substances such as epinephrine, norepinephrine, dopamine, serotonin, enkephalin, somatostatin, neurotensin, and substance P, the actions of which may affect contiguous cells, nearby groups of cells, or distant cells, thus functioning as local or systemic hormones. The name is an acronym for amine precursor uptake and decarboxylation cell. [ [database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md) = GOC:tfm, [database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md) = ISBN:0721662544, [database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md) = MESH:A11.070 ]

## Synonyms

 * amine precursor uptake and decarboxylation cell

## Cross-references

 * BTO:0003866
 * FMA:83114

## Subsets


## Superclasses

 * [neuroendocrine cell](../../CL/65/CL_0000165.md)

## Equivalencies


## Other Logical Axioms


## Other Annotations

 * *[definition](../../IAO/15/IAO_0000115.md)* = A cell that originates in the neural crest, that has certain cytochemical and ultrastructural characteristics and is found scattered throughout the body; types include melanocytes, the cells of the chromaffin system, and cells in the hypothalamus, hypophysis, thyroid, parathyroids, lungs, gastrointestinal tract, and pancreas. This cell type concentrates the amino acid precursors of certain amines and decarboxylate them, forming amines that function as regulators and neurotransmitters. This cell type produces substances such as epinephrine, norepinephrine, dopamine, serotonin, enkephalin, somatostatin, neurotensin, and substance P, the actions of which may affect contiguous cells, nearby groups of cells, or distant cells, thus functioning as local or systemic hormones. The name is an acronym for amine precursor uptake and decarboxylation cell.
 * *[database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md)* = BTO:0003866
 * *[database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md)* = FMA:83114
 * *[has_exact_synonym](../../ym/oboInOwl#hasExactSynonym.md)* = amine precursor uptake and decarboxylation cell
 * *[rdf-schema#label](../../el/rdf-schema#label.md)* = APUD cell

## Usage

 * -
 * [APUD cell](../../CL/68/CL_0000568.md) SubClassOf [neuroendocrine cell](../../CL/65/CL_0000165.md)
 * [chromaffin cell](../../CL/66/CL_0000166.md) SubClassOf [APUD cell](../../CL/68/CL_0000568.md)

## External Comments

