
## Class : infraorbital 1

 * *IRI* = http://purl.obolibrary.org/obo/UBERON_2000223
 * *Label* = infraorbital 1
 * *Definition* = Infraorbital that is the first (anteriormost) bone of the infraorbital series. [ [database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md) = ZFIN:curator ]
 * *Comment* = Suborbital and infraorbital 1 are synonymized by some authors (e.g., Cuvier), however, a suborbital bone in fishes has a different meaning than an infraorbital 1; it is a bone(s) that it is placed between the postero-dorsal infraorbitals and preopercle. A suborbital (also named postorbital by some authors) is not present in extant teleosts with the exception of Arapaima where it is occasionally present. Suborbital bones are found in some fossil basal teleosts. [G. Arratia]

## Synonyms

 * lachrymal [ [database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md) = PSPUB:0000119 ]
 * lacrymal [ [database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md) = PSPUB:0000164 ]
 * suborbital [ [database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md) = TAO:0000223 ]
 * lachrymal bone [ [database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md) = TAO:0000223 ]
 * lacrimal bone [ [database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md) = TAO:0000223 ]
 * lacrymal bone [ [database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md) = TAO:0000223 ]

## Cross-references

 * ZFA:0000223

## Subsets


## Superclasses

 * [infraorbital](../../UBERON/76/UBERON_2000376.md)

## Equivalencies


## Other Logical Axioms


## Other Annotations

 * *[definition](../../IAO/15/IAO_0000115.md)* = Infraorbital that is the first (anteriormost) bone of the infraorbital series.
 * *[core#provenance_notes](../../core#provenance/es/core#provenance_notes.md)* = This class was sourced from an external ontology (teleost_anatomy). Its definitions, naming conventions and relationships may need to be checked for compatibility with uberon
 * *[oboInOwl#created_by](../../oboInOwl#created/by/oboInOwl#created_by.md)* = teleost_anatomy_curators
 * *[database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md)* = ZFA:0000223
 * *[has_exact_synonym](../../ym/oboInOwl#hasExactSynonym.md)* = lachrymal
 * *[has_exact_synonym](../../ym/oboInOwl#hasExactSynonym.md)* = lacrymal
 * *[has_exact_synonym](../../ym/oboInOwl#hasExactSynonym.md)* = suborbital
 * *[has_related_synonym](../../ym/oboInOwl#hasRelatedSynonym.md)* = lachrymal bone
 * *[has_related_synonym](../../ym/oboInOwl#hasRelatedSynonym.md)* = lacrimal bone
 * *[has_related_synonym](../../ym/oboInOwl#hasRelatedSynonym.md)* = lacrymal bone
 * *[rdf-schema#comment](../../nt/rdf-schema#comment.md)* = Suborbital and infraorbital 1 are synonymized by some authors (e.g., Cuvier), however, a suborbital bone in fishes has a different meaning than an infraorbital 1; it is a bone(s) that it is placed between the postero-dorsal infraorbitals and preopercle. A suborbital (also named postorbital by some authors) is not present in extant teleosts with the exception of Arapaima where it is occasionally present. Suborbital bones are found in some fossil basal teleosts. [G. Arratia]
 * *[rdf-schema#label](../../el/rdf-schema#label.md)* = infraorbital 1

## Usage

 * -
 * [infraorbital 1](../../UBERON/23/UBERON_2000223.md) SubClassOf [infraorbital](../../UBERON/76/UBERON_2000376.md)

## External Comments

