
## Class : obsolete forerunner cell group

 * *IRI* = http://purl.obolibrary.org/obo/UBERON_2000023
 * *Label* = obsolete forerunner cell group
 * *Definition* = A group of cells that migrate at the leading edge of shield during gastrulation but do not involute. At the end of gastrulation, forerunner cells migrate deep into the embryo and organize to form Kuppfer's vesicle. Cooper and D'Amico, 1996. [ [database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md) = ZFIN:curator ]
 * *Comment* = incorrectly generalized to teleosts so being obsoleted. 'embryonic structure' and develops_from some 'noninvoluting endocytic marginal cell cluster'

## Synonyms

 * DFCs [ [database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md) = TAO:0000023 ]
 * dorsal forerunner cells [ [database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md) = TAO:0000023 ]
 * forerunner cells [ [database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md) = TAO:0000023, [has_synonym_type](../../pe/oboInOwl#hasSynonymType.md) = http://purl.obolibrary.org/obo/core#PLURAL ]

## Cross-references

 * ZFA:0000023

## Subsets


## Superclasses


## Equivalencies


## Other Logical Axioms


## Other Annotations

 * *[definition](../../IAO/15/IAO_0000115.md)* = A group of cells that migrate at the leading edge of shield during gastrulation but do not involute. At the end of gastrulation, forerunner cells migrate deep into the embryo and organize to form Kuppfer's vesicle. Cooper and D'Amico, 1996.
 * *[core#provenance_notes](../../core#provenance/es/core#provenance_notes.md)* = This class was sourced from an external ontology (teleost_anatomy). Its definitions, naming conventions and relationships may need to be checked for compatibility with uberon
 * *[oboInOwl#created_by](../../oboInOwl#created/by/oboInOwl#created_by.md)* = teleost_anatomy_curators
 * *[database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md)* = ZFA:0000023
 * *[has_exact_synonym](../../ym/oboInOwl#hasExactSynonym.md)* = DFCs
 * *[has_exact_synonym](../../ym/oboInOwl#hasExactSynonym.md)* = dorsal forerunner cells
 * *[has_exact_synonym](../../ym/oboInOwl#hasExactSynonym.md)* = forerunner cells
 * *[rdf-schema#comment](../../nt/rdf-schema#comment.md)* = incorrectly generalized to teleosts so being obsoleted. 'embryonic structure' and develops_from some 'noninvoluting endocytic marginal cell cluster'
 * *[rdf-schema#label](../../el/rdf-schema#label.md)* = obsolete forerunner cell group
 * *[owl#deprecated](../../ed/owl#deprecated.md)* = true

## Usage

 * -

## External Comments

