
## Class : extensor muscle

 * *IRI* = http://purl.obolibrary.org/obo/UBERON_0000311
 * *Label* = extensor muscle
 * *Definition* = A muscle that, upon contraction, tends to straighten a joint or limb. The antagonist of a flexor muscle[BTO]. Any of the muscles that increase the angle between members of a limb, as by straightening the elbow or knee or bending the wrist or spine backward. The movement is usually directed backward, with the notable exception of the knee joint. In humans, certain muscles of the hand and foot are named for this function. In the hand these include the extensor carpi radialis brevis, extensor carpi radialis longus, and extensor carpi ulnaris, which run from the humerus (bone of the upper arm) along the back of the forearm to the metacarpal bones at the back of the hand[Britannica] [ [database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md) = http://www.britannica.com/EBchecked/topic/198909/extensor-muscle ]

## Synonyms

 * extensor

## Cross-references

 * BTO:0000151
 * FMA:75000

## Subsets

 * http://purl.obolibrary.org/obo/uberon/core#pheno_slim

## Superclasses

 * [muscle organ](../../UBERON/30/UBERON_0001630.md)
 * [mesoderm-derived structure](../../UBERON/20/UBERON_0004120.md)
 * [part_of](../../BFO/50/BFO_0000050.md) some [appendage](../../UBERON/26/UBERON_0000026.md)
 * [develops_from](../../RO/02/RO_0002202.md) some [extensor pre-muscle mass](../../UBERON/62/UBERON_0010962.md)

## Equivalencies


## Other Logical Axioms


## Other Annotations

 * *[definition](../../IAO/15/IAO_0000115.md)* = A muscle that, upon contraction, tends to straighten a joint or limb. The antagonist of a flexor muscle[BTO]. Any of the muscles that increase the angle between members of a limb, as by straightening the elbow or knee or bending the wrist or spine backward. The movement is usually directed backward, with the notable exception of the knee joint. In humans, certain muscles of the hand and foot are named for this function. In the hand these include the extensor carpi radialis brevis, extensor carpi radialis longus, and extensor carpi ulnaris, which run from the humerus (bone of the upper arm) along the back of the forearm to the metacarpal bones at the back of the hand[Britannica]
 * *[database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md)* = BTO:0000151
 * *[database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md)* = FMA:75000
 * *[has_related_synonym](../../ym/oboInOwl#hasRelatedSynonym.md)* = extensor
 * *[in_subset](../../et/oboInOwl#inSubset.md)* = http://purl.obolibrary.org/obo/uberon/core#pheno_slim
 * *[rdf-schema#label](../../el/rdf-schema#label.md)* = extensor muscle

## Usage

 * -
 * [extensor digitorum brevis](../../UBERON/72/UBERON_0000372.md) SubClassOf [extensor muscle](../../UBERON/11/UBERON_0000311.md)
 * [extensor digitorum longus](../../UBERON/86/UBERON_0001386.md) SubClassOf [extensor muscle](../../UBERON/11/UBERON_0000311.md)
 * [extensor muscle](../../UBERON/11/UBERON_0000311.md) SubClassOf [develops_from](../../RO/02/RO_0002202.md) some [extensor pre-muscle mass](../../UBERON/62/UBERON_0010962.md)
 * [extensor muscle](../../UBERON/11/UBERON_0000311.md) SubClassOf [mesoderm-derived structure](../../UBERON/20/UBERON_0004120.md)
 * [extensor muscle](../../UBERON/11/UBERON_0000311.md) SubClassOf [muscle organ](../../UBERON/30/UBERON_0001630.md)
 * [extensor muscle](../../UBERON/11/UBERON_0000311.md) SubClassOf [part_of](../../BFO/50/BFO_0000050.md) some [appendage](../../UBERON/26/UBERON_0000026.md)
 * [extrinsic extensor muscle of manus](../../UBERON/24/UBERON_0011024.md) == [extensor muscle](../../UBERON/11/UBERON_0000311.md) and [has_muscle_insertion](../../RO/73/RO_0002373.md) some [manus bone](../../UBERON/97/UBERON_0005897.md) and [part_of](../../BFO/50/BFO_0000050.md) some [forelimb zeugopod](../../UBERON/86/UBERON_0002386.md)
 * [extrinsic extensor muscle of manus](../../UBERON/24/UBERON_0011024.md) SubClassOf [extensor muscle](../../UBERON/11/UBERON_0000311.md)

## External Comments

