
## Class : lateral fontanel of frontal

 * *IRI* = http://purl.obolibrary.org/obo/UBERON_2002011
 * *Label* = lateral fontanel of frontal
 * *Definition* = Fontanel within the frontal bone near the frontal-sphenotic joint. Lateral fontanel of frontal is paired. [ [database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md) = TAO:wd ]
 * *Comment* = Original reference: de Pinna MCC, Vari RP. 1995. Monophyly and phylogenetic diagnosis of the family Cetopsidae, with synonymization of the Helogenidae (Teleostei: Siluriformes). Smithsonian Contributions to Zoology 571: 1-26.

## Synonyms


## Cross-references

 * ZFA:0005537

## Subsets


## Superclasses

 * [fontanelle](../../UBERON/21/UBERON_0002221.md)

## Equivalencies


## Other Logical Axioms


## Other Annotations

 * *[definition](../../IAO/15/IAO_0000115.md)* = Fontanel within the frontal bone near the frontal-sphenotic joint. Lateral fontanel of frontal is paired.
 * *[core#provenance_notes](../../core#provenance/es/core#provenance_notes.md)* = This class was sourced from an external ontology (teleost_anatomy). Its definitions, naming conventions and relationships may need to be checked for compatibility with uberon
 * *[oboInOwl#created_by](../../oboInOwl#created/by/oboInOwl#created_by.md)* = teleost_anatomy_curators
 * *[database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md)* = ZFA:0005537
 * *[rdf-schema#comment](../../nt/rdf-schema#comment.md)* = Original reference: de Pinna MCC, Vari RP. 1995. Monophyly and phylogenetic diagnosis of the family Cetopsidae, with synonymization of the Helogenidae (Teleostei: Siluriformes). Smithsonian Contributions to Zoology 571: 1-26.
 * *[rdf-schema#label](../../el/rdf-schema#label.md)* = lateral fontanel of frontal

## Usage

 * -
 * [lateral fontanel of frontal](../../UBERON/11/UBERON_2002011.md) SubClassOf [fontanelle](../../UBERON/21/UBERON_0002221.md)

## External Comments

