
## Class : intercostal muscle

 * *IRI* = http://purl.obolibrary.org/obo/UBERON_0001111
 * *Label* = intercostal muscle
 * *Definition* = Intercostal muscles are several groups of muscles that run between the ribs, and help form and move the chest wall. There are three principal layers; the external intercostal muscles, which aid in quiet and forced inhalation. They originate on ribs 1-11 and have their insertion on ribs 2-12. The external intercostals are responsible for the elevation of the ribs, and expanding the transverse dimensions of the thoracic cavity. Located around the ribs the internal intercostal muscles, which aid in forced expiration (quiet expiration is a passive process). They originate on ribs 2-12 and have their insertions on ribs 1-11. The internal intercostals are responsible for the depression of the ribs decreasing the transverse dimensions of the thoracic cavity. the innermost intercostal muscle, the deep layers of the internal intercostal muscles which are separated from them by the neurovascular bundle. Both the external and internal muscles are innervated by the intercostal nerves, and are provided by the intercostal arteries and intercostal veins. Their fibers run in opposite directions. [WP,unvetted]. [[database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md) =  + Wikipedia:Intercostal_muscle]
 * *Comment* = This class was created automatically from a combination of ontologies

## Synonyms

 * intercostales
 * respiratory muscle
 * rib muscle

## Cross-references

 * BTO:0005281
 * EFO:0001368
 * EHDAA2:0000841
 * EHDAA:5988
 * EMAPA:18521
 * FMA:13354
 * GAID:159
 * MA:0002324
 * MESH:A02.633.567.900.500
 * OpenCyc:Mx4rwQo8QJwpEbGdrcN5Y29ycA
 * SCTID:181746004
 * UMLS:C0021724 [[oboInOwl#source](../../ce/oboInOwl#source.md) =  + ncithesaurus:Intercostal_Muscle]
 * VHOG:0000903
 * Wikipedia:Intercostal_muscle
 * http://upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/f/f2/Gray411.png
 * http://upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/f/f2/Gray411.png/200px-Gray411.png
 * ncithesaurus:Intercostal_Muscle

## Subsets

 * http://purl.obolibrary.org/obo/uberon/core#efo_slim
 * http://purl.obolibrary.org/obo/uberon/core#uberon_slim

## Superclasses

 * [chest muscle](../../UBERON/26/UBERON_0002426.md)
 * [mesoderm-derived structure](../../UBERON/20/UBERON_0004120.md)
 * [part_of](../../BFO/50/BFO_0000050.md) some [chest](../../UBERON/43/UBERON_0001443.md)
 * [located_in](../../RO/25/RO_0001025.md) some [intercostal space](../../UBERON/98/UBERON_0012198.md)
 * [innervated_by](../../RO/05/RO_0002005.md) some [intercostal nerve](../../UBERON/27/UBERON_0003727.md)
 * [develops from](../../RO/02/RO_0002202.md) some [intercostal pre-muscle mass](../../UBERON/70/UBERON_0010970.md)
 * [has muscle origin](../../RO/72/RO_0002372.md) some [rib](../../UBERON/28/UBERON_0002228.md)
 * [has muscle insertion](../../RO/73/RO_0002373.md) some [rib](../../UBERON/28/UBERON_0002228.md)

## Equivalencies


## Other Logical Axioms


## Other Annotations

 * *[homology_notes](../../UBPROP/03/UBPROP_0000003.md)* = Inspiration by active expansion of the thorax evolved later, in the ancestor of reptiles, birds, and mammals. This was powered originally by the intercostal muscles (as in lizards or crocodilians) and later (in mammals only) by a muscular diaphragm.[well established][VHOG]
 * *[homologous_in](../../core#homologous/in/core#homologous_in.md)* = http://purl.obolibrary.org/obo/NCBITaxon_7742
 * *[has_obo_namespace](../../ce/oboInOwl#hasOBONamespace.md)* = uberon
 * *[oboInOwl#id](../../id/oboInOwl#id.md)* = UBERON:0001111

## External Comments

