
## Class : endothelial cell of lymphatic vessel

 * *IRI* = http://purl.obolibrary.org/obo/CL_0002138
 * *Label* = endothelial cell of lymphatic vessel
 * *Definition* = A endothelial cell of a lymphatic vessel. The border of the oak leaf-shaped endothelial cell of initial lymphatics are joined by specialized buttons. The discontinuous feature of buttons distinguishes them from zippers in collecting lymphatics, but both types of junctions are composed of proteins typical of adherens junctions and tight junctions found in the endothelium of blood vessels. Buttons seal the sides of flaps of the oak leaf-shaped endothelial cell, leaving open the tips of flaps as routes for fluid entry without disassembly and reformation of intercellular junctions. [ [database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md) = GOC:tfm, [database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md) = PMID:17846148 ]

## Synonyms

 * LEC
 * lymphatic endothelial cell

## Cross-references

 * BTO:0004167
 * FMA:68458

## Subsets


## Superclasses

 * [endothelial cell of vascular tree](../../CL/39/CL_0002139.md)
 * [part_of](../../BFO/50/BFO_0000050.md) some [lymphatic vessel](../../UBERON/73/UBERON_0001473.md)
 * [develops_from](../../RO/02/RO_0002202.md) some [vascular lymphangioblast](../../CL/22/CL_0005022.md)

## Equivalencies


## Other Logical Axioms


## Other Annotations

 * *[definition](../../IAO/15/IAO_0000115.md)* = A endothelial cell of a lymphatic vessel. The border of the oak leaf-shaped endothelial cell of initial lymphatics are joined by specialized buttons. The discontinuous feature of buttons distinguishes them from zippers in collecting lymphatics, but both types of junctions are composed of proteins typical of adherens junctions and tight junctions found in the endothelium of blood vessels. Buttons seal the sides of flaps of the oak leaf-shaped endothelial cell, leaving open the tips of flaps as routes for fluid entry without disassembly and reformation of intercellular junctions.
 * *[oboInOwl#created_by](../../oboInOwl#created/by/oboInOwl#created_by.md)* = tmeehan
 * *[oboInOwl#creation_date](../../oboInOwl#creation/te/oboInOwl#creation_date.md)* = 2010-08-24T02:05:28Z
 * *[has_alternative_id](../../Id/oboInOwl#hasAlternativeId.md)* = CL:1000421
 * *[database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md)* = BTO:0004167
 * *[database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md)* = FMA:68458
 * *[has_exact_synonym](../../ym/oboInOwl#hasExactSynonym.md)* = LEC
 * *[has_exact_synonym](../../ym/oboInOwl#hasExactSynonym.md)* = lymphatic endothelial cell
 * *[rdf-schema#label](../../el/rdf-schema#label.md)* = endothelial cell of lymphatic vessel

## Usage

 * -
 * [dermis lymphatic vessel endothelial cell](../../CL/11/CL_2000011.md) SubClassOf [endothelial cell of lymphatic vessel](../../CL/38/CL_0002138.md)
 * [endothelial cell of lymphatic vessel](../../CL/38/CL_0002138.md) SubClassOf [develops_from](../../RO/02/RO_0002202.md) some [vascular lymphangioblast](../../CL/22/CL_0005022.md)
 * [endothelial cell of lymphatic vessel](../../CL/38/CL_0002138.md) SubClassOf [endothelial cell of vascular tree](../../CL/39/CL_0002139.md)
 * [endothelial cell of lymphatic vessel](../../CL/38/CL_0002138.md) SubClassOf [part_of](../../BFO/50/BFO_0000050.md) some [lymphatic vessel](../../UBERON/73/UBERON_0001473.md)
 * [lymphatic vessel endothelium](../../UBERON/42/UBERON_0002042.md) SubClassOf [has_part](../../BFO/51/BFO_0000051.md) some [endothelial cell of lymphatic vessel](../../CL/38/CL_0002138.md)

## External Comments

