
## Class : epithelial cell of thymus

 * *IRI* = http://purl.obolibrary.org/obo/CL_0002293
 * *Label* = epithelial cell of thymus
 * *Definition* = An epithelial cell of the thymus. Epithelial reticular cells are pleomorphic, stellate, non-phagocytic cells which seem to be supportive in function and are held together by desmosomes. They replace the fibroblastoid reticular cells found in other lymphoid organs. Other epithelial cells in the medulla have the ultrastructure of secretory cells. Although different epithelial cells throughout the thymus appear alike by light microscopy their ultrastructure and function varies. [ [database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md) = FMA:72208, [database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md) = GOC:tfm ]

## Synonyms

 * epithelial cell of thymus gland
 * epithelial reticular cell
 * epithelial reticular cell of thymus
 * thymic epithelial cell

## Cross-references

 * CALOHA:TS-1040
 * FMA:72208

## Subsets


## Superclasses

 * [endo-epithelial cell](../../CL/76/CL_0002076.md)
 * [part_of](../../BFO/50/BFO_0000050.md) some [thymus](../../UBERON/70/UBERON_0002370.md)

## Equivalencies


## Other Logical Axioms


## Other Annotations

 * *[definition](../../IAO/15/IAO_0000115.md)* = An epithelial cell of the thymus. Epithelial reticular cells are pleomorphic, stellate, non-phagocytic cells which seem to be supportive in function and are held together by desmosomes. They replace the fibroblastoid reticular cells found in other lymphoid organs. Other epithelial cells in the medulla have the ultrastructure of secretory cells. Although different epithelial cells throughout the thymus appear alike by light microscopy their ultrastructure and function varies.
 * *[oboInOwl#created_by](../../oboInOwl#created/by/oboInOwl#created_by.md)* = tmeehan
 * *[oboInOwl#creation_date](../../oboInOwl#creation/te/oboInOwl#creation_date.md)* = 2010-09-13T02:34:22Z
 * *[has_alternative_id](../../Id/oboInOwl#hasAlternativeId.md)* = CL:1000459
 * *[database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md)* = CALOHA:TS-1040
 * *[database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md)* = FMA:72208
 * *[has_exact_synonym](../../ym/oboInOwl#hasExactSynonym.md)* = epithelial cell of thymus gland
 * *[has_exact_synonym](../../ym/oboInOwl#hasExactSynonym.md)* = epithelial reticular cell
 * *[has_exact_synonym](../../ym/oboInOwl#hasExactSynonym.md)* = epithelial reticular cell of thymus
 * *[has_exact_synonym](../../ym/oboInOwl#hasExactSynonym.md)* = thymic epithelial cell
 * *[rdf-schema#label](../../el/rdf-schema#label.md)* = epithelial cell of thymus

## Usage

 * -
 * [cortex of thymus](../../UBERON/23/UBERON_0002123.md) SubClassOf [has_part](../../BFO/51/BFO_0000051.md) some [epithelial cell of thymus](../../CL/93/CL_0002293.md)
 * [cortical thymic epithelial cell](../../CL/64/CL_0002364.md) SubClassOf [epithelial cell of thymus](../../CL/93/CL_0002293.md)
 * [epithelial cell of thymus](../../CL/93/CL_0002293.md) SubClassOf [endo-epithelial cell](../../CL/76/CL_0002076.md)
 * [epithelial cell of thymus](../../CL/93/CL_0002293.md) SubClassOf [part_of](../../BFO/50/BFO_0000050.md) some [thymus](../../UBERON/70/UBERON_0002370.md)
 * [medullary thymic epithelial cell](../../CL/65/CL_0002365.md) SubClassOf [epithelial cell of thymus](../../CL/93/CL_0002293.md)
 * [thymus epithelium](../../UBERON/46/UBERON_0003846.md) SubClassOf [has_part](../../BFO/51/BFO_0000051.md) some [epithelial cell of thymus](../../CL/93/CL_0002293.md)

## External Comments

