
## Class : myelocyte

 * *IRI* = http://purl.obolibrary.org/obo/CL_0002193
 * *Label* = myelocyte
 * *Definition* = A cell type that is the first of the maturation stages of the granulocytic leukocytes normally found in the bone marrow. Granules are seen in the cytoplasm. The nuclear material of the myelocyte is denser than that of the myeloblast but lacks a definable membrane. The cell is flat and contains increasing numbers of granules as maturation progresses. [ [database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md) = GOC:tfm, [database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md) = ISBN:0323052908, [database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md) = http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Myelocyte ]

## Synonyms


## Cross-references

 * BTO:0000734
 * FMA:83525

## Subsets


## Superclasses

 * [granulocytopoietic cell](../../CL/91/CL_0002191.md)
 * [develops_from](../../RO/02/RO_0002202.md) some [promyelocyte](../../CL/36/CL_0000836.md)

## Equivalencies


## Other Logical Axioms


## Other Annotations

 * *[definition](../../IAO/15/IAO_0000115.md)* = A cell type that is the first of the maturation stages of the granulocytic leukocytes normally found in the bone marrow. Granules are seen in the cytoplasm. The nuclear material of the myelocyte is denser than that of the myeloblast but lacks a definable membrane. The cell is flat and contains increasing numbers of granules as maturation progresses.
 * *[oboInOwl#created_by](../../oboInOwl#created/by/oboInOwl#created_by.md)* = tmeehan
 * *[oboInOwl#creation_date](../../oboInOwl#creation/te/oboInOwl#creation_date.md)* = 2010-08-30T01:08:19Z
 * *[database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md)* = BTO:0000734
 * *[database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md)* = FMA:83525
 * *[rdf-schema#label](../../el/rdf-schema#label.md)* = myelocyte

## Usage

 * -
 * [eosinophilic myelocyte](../../CL/12/CL_0000612.md) SubClassOf [myelocyte](../../CL/93/CL_0002193.md)
 * [metamyelocyte](../../CL/92/CL_0002192.md) SubClassOf [develops_from](../../RO/02/RO_0002202.md) some [myelocyte](../../CL/93/CL_0002193.md)
 * [myelocyte](../../CL/93/CL_0002193.md) SubClassOf [develops_from](../../RO/02/RO_0002202.md) some [promyelocyte](../../CL/36/CL_0000836.md)
 * [myelocyte](../../CL/93/CL_0002193.md) SubClassOf [granulocytopoietic cell](../../CL/91/CL_0002191.md)
 * [neutrophilic myelocyte](../../CL/80/CL_0000580.md) SubClassOf [myelocyte](../../CL/93/CL_0002193.md)

## External Comments

