
## Class : ventral aorta

 * *IRI* = http://purl.obolibrary.org/obo/UBERON_0003085
 * *Label* = ventral aorta
 * *Definition* = The artery in vertebrate embryos that carries blood from the ventricle of the heart to the aortic arches. In adult fish it branches into afferent branchial arteries supplying the gills. In adult tetrapods it is represented by the ascending part of the aorta[BTO]. The ventral aorta is a blood vessel in a single-pass circulatory system that carries de-oxygenated blood from the heart to the gills. In a single-pass circulatory system blood passes once through the heart to supply the body once[GO]. [ [database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md) = BTO:0004674, [database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md) = GO:0035908 ]
 * *Comment* = Taxon notes (via vHOG): "When vertebrates first appeared, they must have possessed a ventral and dorsal aorta with aortic arches between them." Liem KF, Bemis WE, Walker WF, Grande L, Functional Anatomy of the Vertebrates: An Evolutionary Perspective, Third Edition (2001) Orlando Fla.: Harcourt College Publishers, p.620. // in Reptiles, splits to form bases of 3 arteries: left aortic arch, right aortic arch and pulmonary trunk. In birds, the right systemic arch becomes predominant, the left never fully develops [Kardong]

## Synonyms


## Cross-references

 * AAO:0010412
 * BTO:0004674
 * TAO:0000604
 * VHOG:0000121
 * XAO:0000338
 * ZFA:0000604

## Subsets

 * http://purl.obolibrary.org/obo/uberon/core#uberon_slim

## Superclasses

 * [aorta](../../UBERON/47/UBERON_0000947.md)
 * [homologous_to](../../RO/58/RO_0002158.md) some [ascending aorta](../../UBERON/96/UBERON_0001496.md)
 * [channels_from](../../core#channels/om/core#channels_from.md) some [heart](../../UBERON/48/UBERON_0000948.md)

## Equivalencies


## Other Logical Axioms


## Other Annotations

 * *[definition](../../IAO/15/IAO_0000115.md)* = The artery in vertebrate embryos that carries blood from the ventricle of the heart to the aortic arches. In adult fish it branches into afferent branchial arteries supplying the gills. In adult tetrapods it is represented by the ascending part of the aorta[BTO]. The ventral aorta is a blood vessel in a single-pass circulatory system that carries de-oxygenated blood from the heart to the gills. In a single-pass circulatory system blood passes once through the heart to supply the body once[GO].
 * *[external_definition](../../UBPROP/01/UBPROP_0000001.md)* = Outflow artery from the heart to the aortic arches. Kimmel et al, 1995.[TAO]
 * *[homology_notes](../../UBPROP/03/UBPROP_0000003.md)* = When vertebrates first appeared, they must have possessed a ventral and dorsal aorta with aortic arches between them.[well established][VHOG]
 * *[database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md)* = AAO:0010412
 * *[database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md)* = BTO:0004674
 * *[database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md)* = TAO:0000604
 * *[database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md)* = VHOG:0000121
 * *[database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md)* = XAO:0000338
 * *[database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md)* = ZFA:0000604
 * *[in_subset](../../et/oboInOwl#inSubset.md)* = http://purl.obolibrary.org/obo/uberon/core#uberon_slim
 * *[rdf-schema#comment](../../nt/rdf-schema#comment.md)* = Taxon notes (via vHOG): "When vertebrates first appeared, they must have possessed a ventral and dorsal aorta with aortic arches between them." Liem KF, Bemis WE, Walker WF, Grande L, Functional Anatomy of the Vertebrates: An Evolutionary Perspective, Third Edition (2001) Orlando Fla.: Harcourt College Publishers, p.620. // in Reptiles, splits to form bases of 3 arteries: left aortic arch, right aortic arch and pulmonary trunk. In birds, the right systemic arch becomes predominant, the left never fully develops [Kardong]
 * *[rdf-schema#label](../../el/rdf-schema#label.md)* = ventral aorta

## Usage

 * -
 * [left channel of ventral aorta](../../UBERON/13/UBERON_3010413.md) SubClassOf [part_of](../../BFO/50/BFO_0000050.md) some [ventral aorta](../../UBERON/85/UBERON_0003085.md)
 * [right channel of ventral aorta](../../UBERON/24/UBERON_3010424.md) SubClassOf [part_of](../../BFO/50/BFO_0000050.md) some [ventral aorta](../../UBERON/85/UBERON_0003085.md)
 * [ventral aorta](../../UBERON/85/UBERON_0003085.md) SubClassOf [aorta](../../UBERON/47/UBERON_0000947.md)
 * [ventral aorta](../../UBERON/85/UBERON_0003085.md) SubClassOf [channels_from](../../core#channels/om/core#channels_from.md) some [heart](../../UBERON/48/UBERON_0000948.md)
 * [ventral aorta](../../UBERON/85/UBERON_0003085.md) SubClassOf [homologous_to](../../RO/58/RO_0002158.md) some [ascending aorta](../../UBERON/96/UBERON_0001496.md)

## External Comments

