
## Class : valve of inferior vena cava

 * *IRI* = http://purl.obolibrary.org/obo/UBERON_0005485
 * *Label* = valve of inferior vena cava
 * *Definition* = The valve of the inferior vena cava (eustachian valve) lies at the junction of the inferior vena cava and right atrium. In fetal life, the Eustachian valve helps direct the flow of oxygen-rich blood through the right atrium into the left cardiac atrium via the foramen ovale (preventing blood flowing into the right ventricle). Before birth, oxygen rich blood returning from the placenta mixes with blood from the hepatic veins in the inferior vena cava. Streaming this blood across the atrial septum via the foramen ovale increases the oxygen content of blood in the left atrium. This in turn increases the oxygen concentration of blood in the left ventricle, the aorta, the coronary circulation and the circulation of the developing brain. Following birth and separation from the placenta, the oxygen content in the inferior vena cava falls. With the onset of breathing, the left atrium receives oxygen-rich blood from the lungs via the pulmonary veins. As blood flow to the lungs increases, the amount of blood flow entering the left atrium increases. When the pressure in the left atrium exceeds the pressure in the right atrium, the foramen ovale begins to close and limits the blood flow between the left and right atrium. While the Eustachian valve persists in adult life, it is essentially vestigial. Eustachian Valve (EV), also called valvulae venae cavae inferioris, was described for the first time by the Italian anatomist: Bartolomeo Eustachi (born between 1500 and 1513, died 1574). [[database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md) =  + Wikipedia:Valve_of_inferior_vena_cava]
 * *Comment* = editor note: this class should be subdivided into the embryonic structure and the vestigial adult remnant, a small endocardialfold

## Synonyms

 * eustachean valve [[database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md) =  + FMA:9240]
 * eustachian valve [[database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md) =  + FMA:9240]
 * inferior vena cava valve [[database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md) =  + FMA:9240]
 * valve of the inferior vena cava [[database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md) =  + Wikipedia:Valve_of_inferior_vena_cava]
 * valvula venae cavae inferioris [[database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md) =  + Wikipedia:Valve_of_inferior_vena_cava[has_synonym_type](../../pe/oboInOwl#hasSynonymType.md) =  + http://purl.obolibrary.org/obo/uberon/core#LATIN]

## Cross-references

 * EHDAA2:0002166
 * EHDAA:8631
 * FMA:9240
 * SCTID:277722006
 * UMLS:C0225848 [[oboInOwl#source](../../ce/oboInOwl#source.md) =  + ncithesaurus:Eustachian_Valve]
 * Wikipedia:Valve_of_inferior_vena_cava
 * http://upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/6/6c/Gray493.png
 * ncithesaurus:Eustachian_Valve

## Subsets


## Superclasses

 * [cardial valve](../../UBERON/46/UBERON_0000946.md)
 * [venous valve](../../UBERON/75/UBERON_0006675.md)
 * [part_of](../../BFO/50/BFO_0000050.md) some [inferior vena cava](../../UBERON/72/UBERON_0001072.md)

## Equivalencies


## Other Logical Axioms


## Other Annotations

 * *[has_obo_namespace](../../ce/oboInOwl#hasOBONamespace.md)* = uberon
 * *[oboInOwl#id](../../id/oboInOwl#id.md)* = UBERON:0005485

## External Comments

