
## Class : anterior vena cava

 * *IRI* = http://purl.obolibrary.org/obo/UBERON_0001585
 * *Label* = anterior vena cava
 * *Definition* = Trunk of systemic vein which is formed by the union of the right and left brachiocephalic veins and terminates in the right atrium. [ [database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md) = Wikipedia:Superior_vena_cava ]
 * *Comment* = The mouse has both left and right anterior vena cava. adult humans only have a right. Postnatally the left regresses and becomes non-functional (Wessels and Sedmera 2003). In the mouse, The right pulmonary vein passes dorsal to the right superior vena cava, the left pulmonary dorsal to the left superior vena cava (Biology of the Laboratory Mouse, Green).

## Synonyms

 * superior vena cava [ [database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md) = FMA:4720 ]
 * cranial vena cava [ [database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md) = VHOG:0001195 ]
 * vena cava superior [ [database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md) = BTO:0002683 ]
 * vena cava superior [ [database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md) = Wikipedia:Superior_vena_cava, [has_synonym_type](../../pe/oboInOwl#hasSynonymType.md) = http://purl.obolibrary.org/obo/uberon/core#LATIN ]
 * vena maxima [ [database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md) = Wikipedia:Superior_vena_cava, [has_synonym_type](../../pe/oboInOwl#hasSynonymType.md) = http://purl.obolibrary.org/obo/uberon/core#LATIN ]

## Cross-references

 * BTO:0002683
 * EHDAA2:0001962
 * EHDAA:8726
 * EMAPA:18417
 * FMA:4720
 * GAID:549
 * MA:0000481
 * MESH:A07.231.908.949.815
 * SCTID:181368006
 * UMLS:C0042459 [ [oboInOwl#source](../../ce/oboInOwl#source.md) = ncithesaurus:Superior_Vena_Cava ]
 * VHOG:0001195
 * Wikipedia:Superior_vena_cava
 * galen:SuperiorVenaCava
 * http://upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/b/b4/Venenwinkel.png
 * http://upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/b/b4/Venenwinkel.png/200px-Venenwinkel.png
 * ncithesaurus:Superior_Vena_Cava

## Subsets

 * http://purl.obolibrary.org/obo/uberon/core#uberon_slim

## Superclasses

 * [vein](../../UBERON/38/UBERON_0001638.md)

## Equivalencies


## Other Logical Axioms


## Other Annotations

 * *[homology_notes](../../UBPROP/03/UBPROP_0000003.md)* = Phylogenetic modifications within this basic pattern of arteries and veins are largely correlated with functional changes. In the transition from water to land, gills gave way to lungs, accompanied by the establishment of a pulmonary circulation. In some fishes and certainly in tetrapods, the cardinal veins become less involved in blood return. Instead, the composite, prominent postcava (posterior vena cava) arose to drain the posterior part of the body and the precava (anterior vena cava) developed to drain the anterior part of the body.[well established][VHOG]
 * *[homologous_in](../../core#homologous/in/core#homologous_in.md)* = http://purl.obolibrary.org/obo/NCBITaxon_7742

## Usage


## External Comments

