
## Class : parotidoauricular muscle

 * *IRI* = http://purl.obolibrary.org/obo/UBERON_0011385
 * *Label* = parotidoauricular muscle
 * *Definition* = Is one of the numerus muscles of the external ear and is of importance since it is encountered in the operation for drainage of infections of the external ear of the dog. As its name suggests, it arises from the fascia over the parotid gland and approaches the auricle from the ventrolateral direction. This muscle is supplied by the facial nerve.The muscles of the external ear with their scattered origins and precisely located insertions provide for displacement and rotation of the ear in all directions. These muscles also have a collective function in communication both within and between species. [ [database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md) = MURDOCH:1519 ]

## Synonyms

 * parotidoauricular [ [database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md) = MA:0002352 ]
 * parotidoauricularis

## Cross-references

 * MA:0002352
 * UMLS:C1709470 [ [oboInOwl#source](../../ce/oboInOwl#source.md) = ncithesaurus:Parotidoauricular ]
 * http://linkedlifedata.com/resource/umls/id/C1709470
 * http://ncicb.nci.nih.gov/xml/owl/EVS/Parotidoauricular

## Subsets


## Superclasses

 * [extrinsic auricular muscle](../../UBERON/83/UBERON_0001583.md)
 * [has muscle origin](../../RO/72/RO_0002372.md) some [parotid gland](../../UBERON/31/UBERON_0001831.md)
 * [has_muscle_insertion](../../RO/73/RO_0002373.md) some [pinna](../../UBERON/57/UBERON_0001757.md)

## Equivalencies


## Other Logical Axioms


## Other Annotations

 * *[definition](../../IAO/15/IAO_0000115.md)* = Is one of the numerus muscles of the external ear and is of importance since it is encountered in the operation for drainage of infections of the external ear of the dog. As its name suggests, it arises from the fascia over the parotid gland and approaches the auricle from the ventrolateral direction. This muscle is supplied by the facial nerve.The muscles of the external ear with their scattered origins and precisely located insertions provide for displacement and rotation of the ear in all directions. These muscles also have a collective function in communication both within and between species.
 * *[database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md)* = MA:0002352
 * *[database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md)* = UMLS:C1709470
 * *[database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md)* = http://linkedlifedata.com/resource/umls/id/C1709470
 * *[database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md)* = http://ncicb.nci.nih.gov/xml/owl/EVS/Parotidoauricular
 * *[has_exact_synonym](../../ym/oboInOwl#hasExactSynonym.md)* = parotidoauricular
 * *[has_exact_synonym](../../ym/oboInOwl#hasExactSynonym.md)* = parotidoauricularis
 * *[rdf-schema#label](../../el/rdf-schema#label.md)* = parotidoauricular muscle

## Usage

 * -
 * [parotidoauricular muscle](../../UBERON/85/UBERON_0011385.md) SubClassOf [extrinsic auricular muscle](../../UBERON/83/UBERON_0001583.md)
 * [parotidoauricular muscle](../../UBERON/85/UBERON_0011385.md) SubClassOf [has muscle origin](../../RO/72/RO_0002372.md) some [parotid gland](../../UBERON/31/UBERON_0001831.md)
 * [parotidoauricular muscle](../../UBERON/85/UBERON_0011385.md) SubClassOf [has_muscle_insertion](../../RO/73/RO_0002373.md) some [pinna](../../UBERON/57/UBERON_0001757.md)

## External Comments

