
## Class : hyoid bone

 * *IRI* = http://purl.obolibrary.org/obo/UBERON_0001685
 * *Label* = hyoid bone
 * *Definition* = The hyoid bone (lingual bone) (Latin os hyoideum) is a horseshoe shaped bone situated in the anterior midline of the neck between the chin and the thyroid cartilage. At rest, it lies at the level of the base of the mandible in the front and the third cervical vertebra behind. It is the only bone in the human skeleton not articulated to any other bone. It is held in place by thyroid ligaments. The hyoid bone provides attachment to the muscles of the floor of the mouth and the tongue above, the larynx below, and the epiglottis and pharynx behind. Its name is derived from the Greek word hyoeides meaning 'shaped like the letter upsilon' (?). [WP,unvetted]. [[database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md) =  + Wikipedia:Hyoid_bone]
 * *Comment* = Taxon notes: The hyoid bone is derived from the lower half of the second gill arch in fish, which separates the first gill slit from the spiracle. In many animals, it also incorporates elements of other gill arches, and has a correspondingly greater number of cornua. Amphibians and reptiles may have many cornua, while mammals (including humans) have two pairs, and birds only one. In birds, and some reptiles, the body of the hyoid is greatly extended forward, creating a solid bony support for the tongue. The howler monkey Alouatta has a pneumatized hyoid bone, one of the few cases of postcranial pneumatization of bones outside Saurischia.[WP]

## Synonyms

 * hyoid [[database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md) =  + Wikipedia:Hyoid_bone]
 * hyoid bone [[database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md) =  + Wikipedia:Hyoid_bone]
 * hyoideum [[database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md) =  + Wikipedia:Hyoid_bone]
 * lingual bone [[database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md) =  + Wikipedia:Hyoid_bone]
 * os hyoideum [[database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md) =  + Wikipedia:Hyoid_bone[has_synonym_type](../../pe/oboInOwl#hasSynonymType.md) =  + http://purl.obolibrary.org/obo/uberon/core#LATIN]
 * os hyoideum [[database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md) =  + Wikipedia:Hyoid_bone]

## Cross-references

 * AAO:0000684
 * EMAPA:18650
 * EMAPA:18840
 * FMA:52749
 * GAID:197
 * MA:0001484
 * MESH:A02.835.232.409
 * SCTID:263352000
 * UMLS:C0020417 [[oboInOwl#source](../../ce/oboInOwl#source.md) =  + ncithesaurus:Hyoid_Bone]
 * VHOG:0001325
 * Wikipedia:Hyoid_bone
 * http://upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/1/1f/Gray186.png
 * http://upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/1/1f/Gray186.png/200px-Gray186.png
 * ncithesaurus:Hyoid_Bone

## Subsets

 * http://purl.obolibrary.org/obo/uberon/core#uberon_slim

## Superclasses

 * [irregular bone](../../UBERON/01/UBERON_0008001.md)
 * [structure with developmental contribution from neural crest](../../UBERON/14/UBERON_0010314.md)
 * [part_of](../../BFO/50/BFO_0000050.md) some [splanchnocranium](../../UBERON/95/UBERON_0008895.md)
 * [part_of](../../BFO/50/BFO_0000050.md) some [hyoid apparatus](../../UBERON/72/UBERON_0010272.md)
 * [has developmental contribution from](../../RO/54/RO_0002254.md) some [pharyngeal arch 2](../../UBERON/66/UBERON_0003066.md)
 * [has developmental contribution from](../../RO/54/RO_0002254.md) some [pharyngeal arch 3](../../UBERON/14/UBERON_0003114.md)

## Equivalencies


## Other Logical Axioms


## Other Annotations

 * *[external_definition](../../UBPROP/01/UBPROP_0000001.md)* = Paired processes that extend posterolaterally from the posterior margin of the hyoid plate. These processes are the ossified posteromedial processes and invest the laryngeal apparatus.[AAO]
 * *[axiom_lost_from_external_ontology](../../UBPROP/02/UBPROP_0000002.md)* = relationship loss: part_of hyoid plate (AAO:0000664)[AAO]
 * *[homologous_in](../../core#homologous/in/core#homologous_in.md)* = http://purl.obolibrary.org/obo/NCBITaxon_7742
 * *[has_obo_namespace](../../ce/oboInOwl#hasOBONamespace.md)* = uberon
 * *[oboInOwl#id](../../id/oboInOwl#id.md)* = UBERON:0001685

## External Comments

