
## Class : caudal principal ray

 * *IRI* = http://purl.obolibrary.org/obo/UBERON_2001585
 * *Label* = caudal principal ray
 * *Definition* = Caudal fin lepidotrichium that is adjacent to a branched ray. Caudal principal rays may be segmented but unbranched and the main element forming the dorsal or ventral leading margin of the caudal fin or a ray that may be only segmented-and-branched and forms part of the middle-posterior region of the fin. A caudal principal ray is an unpaired median bone. [ [database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md) = TAO:GA_TG, [database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md) = TAO:wd ]
 * *Comment* = Counts of caudal principal rays are taken as the number of branched rays plus two adjacent unbranched rays and counts are typically reported as, for example: 1,8,7,1 (1 unbranched and 8 branched upper rays, 7 branched and 1 unbranched lower rays). A caudal principal caudal ray may be associated with one or more hypurals or with hemal spines of preural centra 1 and 2 (Schultze and Arratia, 1989; Arratia, 2008). In basal teleosts the number of caudal principal rays is about 20. A decreasing of the number of the branched-and segmented rays is observed in more advanced teleosts (see Schultze and Arratia, 1989; Arratia, 1991, 2008).

## Synonyms

 * caudal fin principal ray [ [database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md) = TAO:0001585 ]
 * caudal principal lepidotrichium [ [database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md) = TAO:0001585 ]

## Cross-references

 * ZFA:0001585

## Subsets


## Superclasses

 * [caudal fin lepidotrichium](../../UBERON/74/UBERON_4000174.md)
 * [part_of](../../BFO/50/BFO_0000050.md) some [caudal principal ray set](../../UBERON/64/UBERON_2002164.md)

## Equivalencies


## Other Logical Axioms


## Other Annotations

 * *[definition](../../IAO/15/IAO_0000115.md)* = Caudal fin lepidotrichium that is adjacent to a branched ray. Caudal principal rays may be segmented but unbranched and the main element forming the dorsal or ventral leading margin of the caudal fin or a ray that may be only segmented-and-branched and forms part of the middle-posterior region of the fin. A caudal principal ray is an unpaired median bone.
 * *[core#provenance_notes](../../core#provenance/es/core#provenance_notes.md)* = This class was sourced from an external ontology (teleost_anatomy). Its definitions, naming conventions and relationships may need to be checked for compatibility with uberon
 * *[oboInOwl#created_by](../../oboInOwl#created/by/oboInOwl#created_by.md)* = teleost_anatomy_curators
 * *[database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md)* = ZFA:0001585
 * *[has_exact_synonym](../../ym/oboInOwl#hasExactSynonym.md)* = caudal fin principal ray
 * *[has_exact_synonym](../../ym/oboInOwl#hasExactSynonym.md)* = caudal principal lepidotrichium
 * *[rdf-schema#comment](../../nt/rdf-schema#comment.md)* = Counts of caudal principal rays are taken as the number of branched rays plus two adjacent unbranched rays and counts are typically reported as, for example: 1,8,7,1 (1 unbranched and 8 branched upper rays, 7 branched and 1 unbranched lower rays). A caudal principal caudal ray may be associated with one or more hypurals or with hemal spines of preural centra 1 and 2 (Schultze and Arratia, 1989; Arratia, 2008). In basal teleosts the number of caudal principal rays is about 20. A decreasing of the number of the branched-and segmented rays is observed in more advanced teleosts (see Schultze and Arratia, 1989; Arratia, 1991, 2008).
 * *[rdf-schema#label](../../el/rdf-schema#label.md)* = caudal principal ray

## Usage

 * -
 * [caudal principal ray 10](../../UBERON/22/UBERON_2001722.md) SubClassOf [caudal principal ray](../../UBERON/85/UBERON_2001585.md)
 * [caudal principal ray 11](../../UBERON/23/UBERON_2001723.md) SubClassOf [caudal principal ray](../../UBERON/85/UBERON_2001585.md)
 * [caudal principal ray 12](../../UBERON/24/UBERON_2001724.md) SubClassOf [caudal principal ray](../../UBERON/85/UBERON_2001585.md)
 * [caudal principal ray 13](../../UBERON/25/UBERON_2001725.md) SubClassOf [caudal principal ray](../../UBERON/85/UBERON_2001585.md)
 * [caudal principal ray 14](../../UBERON/26/UBERON_2001726.md) SubClassOf [caudal principal ray](../../UBERON/85/UBERON_2001585.md)
 * [caudal principal ray 15](../../UBERON/27/UBERON_2001727.md) SubClassOf [caudal principal ray](../../UBERON/85/UBERON_2001585.md)
 * [caudal principal ray 16](../../UBERON/28/UBERON_2001728.md) SubClassOf [caudal principal ray](../../UBERON/85/UBERON_2001585.md)
 * [caudal principal ray 17](../../UBERON/29/UBERON_2001729.md) SubClassOf [caudal principal ray](../../UBERON/85/UBERON_2001585.md)
 * [caudal principal ray 18](../../UBERON/30/UBERON_2001730.md) SubClassOf [caudal principal ray](../../UBERON/85/UBERON_2001585.md)
 * [caudal principal ray 19](../../UBERON/31/UBERON_2001731.md) SubClassOf [caudal principal ray](../../UBERON/85/UBERON_2001585.md)
 * [caudal principal ray 1](../../UBERON/13/UBERON_2001713.md) SubClassOf [caudal principal ray](../../UBERON/85/UBERON_2001585.md)
 * [caudal principal ray 2](../../UBERON/14/UBERON_2001714.md) SubClassOf [caudal principal ray](../../UBERON/85/UBERON_2001585.md)
 * [caudal principal ray 3](../../UBERON/15/UBERON_2001715.md) SubClassOf [caudal principal ray](../../UBERON/85/UBERON_2001585.md)
 * [caudal principal ray 4](../../UBERON/16/UBERON_2001716.md) SubClassOf [caudal principal ray](../../UBERON/85/UBERON_2001585.md)
 * [caudal principal ray 5](../../UBERON/17/UBERON_2001717.md) SubClassOf [caudal principal ray](../../UBERON/85/UBERON_2001585.md)
 * [caudal principal ray 6](../../UBERON/18/UBERON_2001718.md) SubClassOf [caudal principal ray](../../UBERON/85/UBERON_2001585.md)
 * [caudal principal ray 7](../../UBERON/19/UBERON_2001719.md) SubClassOf [caudal principal ray](../../UBERON/85/UBERON_2001585.md)
 * [caudal principal ray 8](../../UBERON/20/UBERON_2001720.md) SubClassOf [caudal principal ray](../../UBERON/85/UBERON_2001585.md)
 * [caudal principal ray 9](../../UBERON/21/UBERON_2001721.md) SubClassOf [caudal principal ray](../../UBERON/85/UBERON_2001585.md)
 * [caudal principal ray set](../../UBERON/64/UBERON_2002164.md) SubClassOf [composed_primarily_of](../../RO/73/RO_0002473.md) some [caudal principal ray](../../UBERON/85/UBERON_2001585.md)
 * [caudal principal ray](../../UBERON/85/UBERON_2001585.md) SubClassOf [caudal fin lepidotrichium](../../UBERON/74/UBERON_4000174.md)
 * [caudal principal ray](../../UBERON/85/UBERON_2001585.md) SubClassOf [part_of](../../BFO/50/BFO_0000050.md) some [caudal principal ray set](../../UBERON/64/UBERON_2002164.md)

## External Comments

